===== PAGE 1 =====
IEEE JOURNAL OF SOLID-STATE CIRCUITS, VOL. 60, NO. 1, JANUARY 2025
347
A 28-nm 19.9-to-258.5-TOPS/W 8b Digital
Computing-in-Memory Processor With Two-Cycle
Macro Featuring Winograd-Domain Convolution
and Macro-Level Parallel Dual-Side Sparsity
Hao Wu , Member, IEEE, Yong Chen , Senior Member, IEEE, Yiyang Yuan , Jinshan Yue , Member, IEEE,
Xinghua Wang , Member, IEEE, Xiaoran Li , Member, IEEE, and Feng Zhang , Senior Member, IEEE
Abstract— Recently, computing in memory (CiM) has been
proven to be an energy-efficient and promising architecture
for artificial intelligence (AI) algorithms. And yet, current CiM
schemes generally suffer from limited throughput compared to
their digital counterparts, and the key reason is that the CiM
macro calculation must iterate through multiple cycles. Thus,
the need to reduce the calculation cycle of the macro while
keeping high energy efficiency and the necessity of developing
acceleration methods for the universal CiM-based processor have
become major issues faced by the current CiM architectures.
To surmount these critical problems, we propose a processor
based on a two-cycle CiM macro. Our work makes three main
contributions: 1) we present a Radix16-based digital-CiM macro
with look-up table (LUT) optimization to reduce dynamic power
consumption; 2) we devise a hybrid Winograd microarchitecture
and dataflow that supports (2, 3) and (4, 3) Winograd convolution,
meaning that a good compromise can be reached between the
accuracy of the algorithm and the reduction in workload; and
3) we propose a macrolevel parallel dual-side sparse CiM core
that uses a horizontal direction compression method to reduce the
input cycle of activation data and improve the mapping efficiency
of the weight data in the macros. A prototype of the processor
is fabricated in a 28-nm CMOS, which achieves a peak system
energy efficiency of 19.9–258.5-TOPS/W for a voltage supply of
Manuscript
received
6
December
2023;
revised
28
February
2024 and 14 May 2024; accepted 25 May 2024. Date of publication
18 June 2024; date of current version 20 January 2025. This article
was approved by Associate Editor Meng-Fan Chang. This work was
supported in part by the National Key Research Plan of China under Grant
2023YFB4402400, in part by the Strategic Priority Research Program of the
Chinese Academy of Sciences China under Grant XDB44000000 and Grant
XDA330100, in part by the National Natural Science Foundation of China
under Grant U2341218 and Grant 62101038, and in part by the Science
and Technology Development Fund (FDCT) under Grant 0036/2020/AGJ
and Grant MYRG2020-00209-IME. (Corresponding authors: Yong Chen;
Feng Zhang.)
Hao Wu, Yiyang Yuan, Jinshan Yue, and Feng Zhang are with the Key
Laboratory of Microelectronics Device and Integrated Technology, Institute
of Microelectronics, Chinese Academy of Sciences (CAS), Beijing 100029,
China, and also with the School of Integrated Circuit, University of Chinese
Academy of Sciences, Beijing 100049, China (e-mail: yuejinshan@ime.ac.cn;
zhangfeng_ime@ime.ac.cn).
Yong Chen was with the State-Key Laboratory of Analog and Mixed-Signal
VLSI and IME/ECE-FST, University of Macau, Macau, China. He is now
with the Department of Electronic Engineering, Tsinghua University, Beijing
100190, China (e-mail: ychen_ee@tsinghua.edu.cn).
Xinghua Wang and Xiaoran Li are with the School of Information and
Electronics, Beijing Institute of Technology, Beijing 100081, China.
Color versions of one or more figures in this article are available at
https://doi.org/10.1109/JSSC.2024.3409356.
Digital Object Identifier 10.1109/JSSC.2024.3409356
0.6–1.1 V, and an operating frequency of 78–287 MHz, a 2.55–
7.08× higher than other state-of-the-art CiM processors.
Index Terms— Artificial intelligence (AI), CMOS, computing-
in-memory
(CiM),
energy
efficiency,
look-up
table
(LUT),
multiply-accumulation (MAC), neural network (NN), Radix16,
unstructured sparsity, Winograd convolution.
I. INTRODUCTION
F
OLLOWING the emergence of large universal mod-
els such as ChatGPT, the growing computing loads of
artificial intelligence (AI) algorithms have imposed higher
requirements on silicon-based hardware. Traditional digital
AI accelerators based on the von Neumann architecture have
achieved good system energy efficiency. These accelerators are
based on separate memory and compute arrays for handling
various AI workloads [1], [2], [3], [4], [5], [6], as shown in
Fig. 1. However, it is hard to further improve the energy effi-
ciency of AI computing, since the problem of the high power
required for massive data transmission cannot be solved [7].
Computing in memory (CiM) is the most promising candi-
date in terms of breaking through the memory wall bottleneck.
In this approach, storage units and computing circuits are
coupled together to reduce the power consumption required
for large data transfers. The current CiM implementation
uses a specially designed analog-to-digital converter (ADC) to
read out the multiply-accumulation (MAC) calculation results
over multiple cycles (i.e., analog CiM), or decomposes the
multiplication operation into several steps to obtain the MAC
calculation results over multiple cycles (i.e., digital CiM),
and both of these approaches have yielded good energy
efficiency [8], [9], [10], [11], [12], [13], [14], [15], [16], [17],
[18], [19], [20].
However, there are still some problems with this coupling
scheme. Compared to the traditional digital pipeline structure,
the throughput is greatly reduced by the special calculation
method used, which consumes multiple CiM calculation cycles
to deliver the complete MAC calculation results. This means
that the computational throughput of CiM-based processors
is completely determined by the number of computational
cycles, for a given operating frequency and a given number
of MAC units. As shown in Fig. 1, it is hard to increase the
0018-9200 © 2024 IEEE. Personal use is permitted, but republication/redistribution requires IEEE permission.
See https://www.ieee.org/publications/rights/index.html for more information.
Authorized licensed use limited to: University of Electronic Science and Tech of China. Downloaded on August 13,2026 at 04:10:22 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

===== PAGE 2 =====
348
IEEE JOURNAL OF SOLID-STATE CIRCUITS, VOL. 60, NO. 1, JANUARY 2025
Fig. 1.
Low throughput as a bottleneck for current CiM architectures.
throughput of the current CiM architecture while maintain-
ing high-energy efficiency, and this architecture is therefore
limited to low-power scenarios rather than high-performance
ones. To allow us to address this key issue, we summarize the
existing challenges at three different levels as follows.
Challenge 1: At the circuit level, for the digital CiM
macro, a method is needed to reduce the number of the CiM
calculation cycles while retaining the advantage of the CiM’s
high-energy efficiency.
Challenge 2: At the microarchitecture level, a dataflow and
microarchitecture are required to develop a universal Winograd
optimization to support various configurations of convolutional
calculations. It is also necessary to solve the problem of the
reduced accuracy of the algorithm arising from the use of the
Winograd method.
Challenge 3: At the data level, sparsity has always offered
an important opportunity for the optimization of AI acceler-
ators. A hardware architecture is required that can support
flexible skipping of unnecessary calculations to reduce power
consumption and improve throughput. These challenges are
illustrated in Fig. 2.
In this article, we propose a digital CiM-based high-
throughput processor with a two-cycle macro based on
Winograd-domain convolution (CONV) and macrolevel par-
allel dual-side sparsity. Our work makes three main contribu-
tions to this.
To address Challenge 1, a new digital CiM macro is
proposed that can reduce the number of CiM calculation cycles
to two for INT8. Concurrently, a look-up table (LUT) method
is introduced that can reduce the dynamic power consumption
of the digital CiM macro by 21.7%. The macrolevel energy
efficiency ratio can be improved by 1.84–2.44×.
In response to Challenge 2, we develop two different
dataflow modes: a Winograd-domain data path is used to
support Winograd CONV calculations of F2 and F4, and a
spatial-domain data path executes 1 × 1 CONV calculations
and general matrix-to-matrix multiplication (GEMM) calcula-
tions in the fully connected (FC) layer. The accuracy of the
algorithm is maintained while the number of MAC operations
is reduced as far as possible, and an acceleration of 2.59× is
achieved.
To tackle Challenge 3, we devise a macrolevel dual-side par-
allel sparsity (MDPS) strategy to realize sparsity optimization
without loss of accuracy of the algorithm. The number of input
cycles for the activation tiles is reduced, while the mapping
efficiency of weight data on the CiM macro is increased.
A speedup of 3.11× is attained upon both operations having
50% sparsity.
II. BACKGROUND AND MOTIVATION
A. Evolution and Key Issues of CiM Architecture
The CiM architecture has proven to be a very promising
choice for AI workloads. The weight data for different AI
workloads are stored in a CiM macro and directly used for
local calculations to reduce the weight data transfer cost of the
AI workload. Among the current approaches, digital CiM has
better scaling capability than analog CiM, and improvements
in energy efficiency can be made with advancements in chip
process nodes. This approach solves the issue of nonideal
factors caused by the processing of analog signals in analog
CiM. A digital CiM macro can activate multiple rows at
the same time, and a single macro serves as multiple inner
product calculation units for the implementation of GEMM
in AI workloads. Hence, digital CiM architecture is expected
to become a mainstream option for the next generation of
AI accelerators. However, its throughput depends strongly on
the number of calculation cycles of the CiM macro circuit,
meaning that a reduction in the number of cycles can make a
huge improvement to the throughput.
The earliest implementation of digital CiM was a bit-serial
scheme that could achieve high computing energy efficiency
but only obtained the complete MAC result every eight cycles
for INT8. Researchers have since developed several methods
of reducing the number of CiM calculation cycles (Fig. 3).
Wen et al. [20] used a threshold judgment to decide whether to
flexibly skip the calculation of some input bits in analog CiM,
which could reduce the number of CiM calculation cycles but
caused a loss of accuracy. The study in [9] presented a dupli-
cated adder tree (AT) to cope with multiple input bits within
one cycle. The number of calculation cycles was reduced, but
the energy efficiency was not significantly improved because
the duplicated AT introduced more circuit flips per cycle.
In [15], Booth coding was employed to handle multiplication
calculations, which reduced the number of calculation cycles
and improved the energy efficiency; yet, INT8 still required
four cycles to obtain the complete MAC result. The issue of
how to simultaneously reduce the number of MAC calculation
cycles while minimizing the introduction of additional circuit
flipping is a key issue currently faced by designers in this field.
B. Winograd-Domain CONV
The convolutional neural network (CNN) is a kernel part
of AI workloads, and many methods have been developed to
speed up the CONV calculations. The Winograd algorithm
is an extended Toom–Cook algorithm that combines cheap
transformation operations with constant matrices to minimize
the number of multiplications required in the CONV calcula-
tion [21], [22]. The extra transformation operation has a lower
Authorized licensed use limited to: University of Electronic Science and Tech of China. Downloaded on August 13,2026 at 04:10:22 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

===== PAGE 3 =====
WU et al.: 28-nm 19.9-TO-258.5-TOPS/W 8b DIGITAL COMPUTING-IN-MEMORY PROCESSOR
349
Fig. 2.
Challenges at different levels identified in prior works aiming to reduce the number of calculation cycles.
Fig. 3.
Methods used in previous CiM variants to reduce the number of
calculation cycles.
power cost than the multiplication in the CONV workload.
There are different levels of the Winograd algorithm. The
Winograd algorithm for a 3 × 3 CONV with a single output
tile size of m × m is represented by F(m, 3). The most
common ones are F(2, 3), F(4, 3), and F(6, 3), also denoted
as F2, F4, and F6. In terms of floating point precision, the
Winograd algorithm can achieve a 2.24–5.06× reduction in
MAC workload without loss of accuracy. Currently, to acceler-
ate AI inference workloads, data accuracy is generally limited
to INT8. However, with low data accuracy, the Winograd
optimization method will cause irreparable accuracy loss.
As shown in Table I, using the F4/F6 optimization method
directly under conditions of low data precision will lead to a
drastic decrease in accuracy [23]. To enable this optimization
method to be integrated into the CiM chip, the hardware design
requires a flexible data path to support both the spatial-domain
and the Winograd-domain CNN workload. A microarchitec-
ture is needed that allows the Winograd optimization method
to support CONV calculations with different strides and dif-
ferent kernel sizes.
C. Sparsity Optimization
Sparsity is an essential feature of neural network (NN)
algorithms. Prior researchers [24] have proved that NN algo-
rithms can be compressed to 95% sparsity without accuracy
loss, since due to the quantization operations and activation
functions involved, a large proportion of the weights and
TABLE I
TRADITIONAL/WINOGRAD CONV ACCURACY IN 8 bit
activation data of the NN will be zero-valued after processing.
The MAC calculations of these zero-value data will not
affect the results of the NN algorithm, which gives rise
to opportunities for optimization and hardware acceleration
of the algorithm. As summarized in Fig. 4, recent sparsity
technology was implemented using CiM macro at the hard-
ware level for different types of AI workloads. At the level
of sparsity, these optimization methods can be divided into
three categories: blockwise [11], [12], elementwise [13], [16],
[17], [18], [31], [32], bitwise sparsity methods [14], [17],
[19]. Processors in [16] and [17] proposed sparsity optimiza-
tion techniques specifically for transformers. Yue et al. [13]
reported a sparsity optimization technique specific to graph
neural network (GCN)/deep learning recommendation models
(DLRMs). These technologies introduce very small hardware
and power consumption overhead and exhibit good energy
efficiency improvements. However, these techniques are only
applicable to these specific algorithms and are not generally
the sparsity techniques for AI computing. Yue et al. [14] and
Zhu et al. [19] used the innovation point 3 of [17] designs bit-
wise general sparsity optimization technology. Yue et al. [14]
and Zhu et al. [19] reduced the power consumption of the
readout-sense amplifier (SA) circuit of the static random
access memory (SRAM) bit-cell. Yet, in the digital CiM
macro, the power consumption of logic circuits, such as
adders, which account for a higher proportion of power con-
sumption, has not been reduced. Bitwise sparsity optimization
in [14] and [19] does not gain performance by profiting
from sparse data (e.g., the calculation of the sparse bits is
not skipped). The sparsity optimization technology in [17]
is only applicable to bit-serial CiM macro. Tu et al. [18]
exploited elementwise sparsity technology using digital core
Authorized licensed use limited to: University of Electronic Science and Tech of China. Downloaded on August 13,2026 at 04:10:22 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

===== PAGE 4 =====
350
IEEE JOURNAL OF SOLID-STATE CIRCUITS, VOL. 60, NO. 1, JANUARY 2025
and CiM core to handle sparse and dense data, respectively.
Since the proportion of sparse data is unknown, there may
be an imbalance in the computational load between different
types of cores. Yue et al. [11] and [12] presented structured
sparsity optimization methods. Through a special training
method, the weight data are sparse in units of data blocks. This
allows weight data to be mapped more easily into the CiM
macro’s rigid array. But the sparse weight data distribution
in general trained algorithms is random, thus the universal-
ity of this method is still affected by changes in training
methods. Customized training methods need to be designed
for each different AI workload such as CNN, transformer,
and LSTM. In most algorithms, the sparsity of weight data
is randomly distributed because they use general training
methods. Therefore, the performance gains of unstructured
sparse data cannot be implemented by using this type of
hardware microarchitecture. Yue et al. [12] used a method
to adjust the accuracy of an ADC’s readout results to handle
sparse activation data. This method is only suitable for analog
CiM macro but is implemented at the cost of algorithm
accuracy. Both the weight data compression methods in [31],
[32], and [33], as well as the column/row-exchange method
in [32], require weight data to adhere to specific formats.
Most importantly, these two sparsity methods only apply to
macros that activate the operation unit (OU) serially, which
greatly reduces computing parallelism and the data reuse
rate.
In summary, we need a universal sparsity technique for
digital CiM macros that can handle both activation/weight
dual-side sparse data. This sparsity optimization method
should be able to achieve the targets of both power consump-
tion reduction and performance improvement and maintain
excellent universality for different AI workloads.
III. OVERALL ARCHITECTURE OF THE PROPOSED CIM
PROCESSOR
Fig. 5(a) shows the overall architecture of the proposed
general purpose digital CiM processor and its three fea-
tures. The entire CiM processor incorporates six processing
cores, a 130.5 kB global SRAM, a 121.5 kB weight SRAM,
and an RISC-V-based top control unit with a 4 kB inst
SRAM. Each processing core contains a 144 × 32 CiM core,
an activation input buffer, three Winograd transformation units,
a single instruction multiple data (SIMD) unit, and a 6 kB
configuration information SRAM. Each CiM core contains
four 36 × 32 CiM macros, an input sparsity-processing unit
(ISPU), and an output merge buffer (OMB).
As shown in Fig. 5(b), the entire chip has two work modes.
In the Winograd-domain mode, the activation data are first read
from the global SRAM and are sent to the input buffer, which
cooperates with the BT ()B unit to complete the Winograd
transformation of the activation data. Since the bit width of the
transformed data will change, the data needs to be quantized
into 8 bits by the SIMD unit after the transformation operation,
before being sent to the CiM core. The weight data are read
from the weight SRAM and are passed to the CiM core for
calculation after the G()GT transformation and quantization
operations for reducing weight SRAM capacity. The MAC
result obtained by the CiM core needs to be transformed by
the AT ()A unit, and after being processed by the SIMD unit,
it is quantized into 8-bit blocks for subsequent calculations.
In summary, in the Winograd-domain mode, three transforma-
tion units are responsible for converting the data between the
Winograd and spatial domains. The Winograd-domain mode
is used for the CONV workload optimized by the Winograd
method. In the spatial-domain mode, the three transformation
units do not need to be enabled, as the CiM core and SIMD
unit perform regular MAC calculations. The spatial-domain
mode is designed to process the spatial-domain CONV work-
load and the GEMM workload at the FC layer.
IV. RADIX16 + LUT-BASED DIGITAL CIM MACRO FOR
CIRCUIT-LEVEL OPTIMIZATION
A. Radix16 + LUT Mechanism
The CiM macro circuit is a key component of the CiM-
based processor. To increase the processor throughput while
maintaining high-energy efficiency, it is extremely important
to reduce the number of calculation cycles of the CiM macro.
In this section, we first introduce the characteristics of the typ-
ical architecture of a digital CiM macro. The implementation
formulae of the two different multiplications for INT n are as
follows:
I ∗W =
n−1
X
i=0
 I[i] ∗W ∗2i
(1)
I ∗W =
n−1
X
i=0,i+=2
 (−2I[i +1]+I[i]+I[i −1]) ∗W ∗2i
. (2)
As can be seen from the above formulae, the bit-serial
multiplication in (1) involves processing 1 bit of activation
data per calculation cycle [8]. This is the most direct method of
multiplication splitting and can achieve high-energy efficiency,
but the processing of only 1 bit of activation data at a time
makes this method inefficient in the time domain. Tu et al. [15]
introduced the Radix4-based multiplication in (2), which can
compute 3 bits of activation data at a time. This improves the
processing efficiency in the time domain and reduces the CiM
calculation cycles by half, but is still very slow to complete
the INT8 × INT8 multiplication every four cycles. To reduce
the number of calculation cycles for this operation, there is a
need to increase the circuit flips per cycle, which worsens the
energy efficiency. Thus, it is necessary to reduce the number
of calculation cycles while minimizing the extra circuit flips.
To address these issues, we propose a Radix16 + LUT
method for the digital CiM macro in our processor. This
multiplication can be written as
I ∗W =
n−1
X
i=0,i+=4
((−8I[i + 3] + 4I[i + 2] + 2I[i + 1]
+I[i] + I[i −1]) ∗W ∗2i
.
(3)
Unlike the methods in [8] and [15], this method processes
5 bits of activation data each time and can complete the
INT8 × INT8 multiplication in two calculation cycles. How-
ever, the circuit that directly implements the weighted partial
product calculation will introduce too many circuit flips in
each calculation cycle. For this reason, we introduce the LUT
Authorized licensed use limited to: University of Electronic Science and Tech of China. Downloaded on August 13,2026 at 04:10:22 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

===== PAGE 5 =====
WU et al.: 28-nm 19.9-TO-258.5-TOPS/W 8b DIGITAL COMPUTING-IN-MEMORY PROCESSOR
351
Fig. 4.
Classification of sparsity techniques in CiM-based processors from previous work.
Fig. 5. (a) Proposed top-level architecture with three features and (b) dataflow
direction for the two modes of operation.
optimization method to reduce the circuit flips of this part of
the circuit. Its main mechanism is detailed in Fig. 6.
In the truth table in Fig. 6, we divide the partial
product
of
the
Radix16
multiplication
into
two
types.
One type can be realized with only a left shift oper-
ation {±W,
±2W,
±4W,
±8W}, whereas the other
type requires both a left shift and an addition operation
{±3W, ±5W, ±6W, ±7W}, representing 53.3% of the
partial product codes (0 is not included). ±7W requires
two additional operations. To reduce the high power cost
of the addition when encoding partial products, we use the
LUT method to implement {±3W, ±5W, ±6W, ±7W}
partial product encoding. This can reduce the dynamic power
consumption by 21.7%.
Fig. 6.
Mechanism of Radix16 + LUT multiplication and Radix16 truth
table.
B. Radix16 + LUT-Based Digital CiM Macro
Fig. 7(a) shows the hardware architecture of the 4 × 32
CiM macro. Each 4 × 32 CiM macro consists of a Radix16
encoder unit, a 4 × 32 SRAM array, a weight encoder, a partial
product right shifter (PPRS), and an AT and accumulator unit.
Each 4 × 32 SRAM array is assigned four Radix16 encoders
in the Radix16 encoder unit.
The 8-bit integer is split into two 5-bit Radix16codes to be
input in two cycles [t0 and t1 in Fig. 7(a)]. In each calculation
cycle, four encoders encode the four-row Radix16code data
to give three control signals, NEG, EIGHT[3:0], and ZERO,
according to the 5-bit activation data. The signal EIGHT[3:0]
is used to represent the absolute value of the weight multiplier,
with a maximum value of 8. These control signals are input
into the weight encoder. The shifter unit and the LUT unit
are integrated into the SRAM array to obtain the P[10:0] of
the weight data. These four-row P[10:0] data are input to
the PPRS for sparsity optimization, as described below in
Section VI-B. The P[10:0] results from the PPRS are sent
to the four-input AT and accumulator to obtain four-row sum
results. The complement code is generated by the complement
code adder and added to the four-row sum to give a complete
18-bit partial product. The CiM macro obtains complete four-
row 18-bit MAC calculation results every two calculation
cycles. Both the shifter unit and the LUT unit are implemented
using customized digital circuits.
Authorized licensed use limited to: University of Electronic Science and Tech of China. Downloaded on August 13,2026 at 04:10:22 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

===== PAGE 6 =====
352
IEEE JOURNAL OF SOLID-STATE CIRCUITS, VOL. 60, NO. 1, JANUARY 2025
Fig. 7.
(a) Hardware scheme for the proposed 4 × 32 CiM macro, (b) 4 ×
32 macro area breakdown, and (c) layout of the LUT circuit.
Fig. 7(b) details a breakdown of a single 4 × 32 macro
area. In our design, the area of a single 4 × 32 macro
is 8400 µm2. This area data includes all circuits used for
calculations in the macro and the routes between the pins of
these circuits. Circuits for sparsity techniques are not included.
Fig. 7(c) shows the layout of a single LUT circuit. The LUTs
are designed in Virtuoso using a method that maximizes the
reuse of digital logic units. It is composed of multiple digital
gate unit circuits, which are similar to an adder. The layout
complexity of the LUT circuit is not high, and all routes can
be realized within eight layers of metal, herein, M9 and M10
are used for power rails. Because it is the largest circuit in
the macro, the layout of other modules of the macro is placed
around the LUT layout.
C. Performance Comparison
Fig. 8 shows a plot of the performance of our Radix16 +
LUT scheme and the existing digital CiM macro for com-
parison. We perform the macro-level evaluation in Virtuoso
at [0.9 V, 100 MHz, TT corner, 25 ◦C]. To ensure a fair
comparison, the power consumption of PPRS for sparsity
optimization is excluded. Although the Radix16 + LUT
method has higher power consumption in each calculation
cycle compared to existing schemes, in each complete MAC
calculation, the power cost is reduced by 2.44×. The additional
circuits introduced to the CiM macro mainly include the
Radix16 encoder unit and the weight encoder, which accounts
for 7.58% and 16.66% of the MAC power, respectively, in a
macrolevel evaluation. The LUT optimization method reduces
the MAC power by 21.7%. It can also be seen from Fig. 8 that
the reduction in MAC computing power consumption brought
by Radix16 technology is very small compared to Radix4 [15].
This proves that the LUT technology is important for further
reduction of the computing power consumption in our digital
CiM macro design.
Fig. 8.
Macrolevel MAC energy in every calculation cycle. MAC energy in
every MAC calculation. All for INT8 × INT8.
V. CONFIGURABLE WINOGRAD-DOMAIN CONV FOR
MICROARCHITECTURE-LEVEL OPTIMIZATION
A. Hybrid Winograd Algorithm
Previous work [22] on the Winograd algorithm mainly
focused on the design of a customized microarchitecture for
one of the levels to accelerate the CONV workload. As men-
tioned in Section II-B, the Winograd algorithm using only the
F2 level under INT8 accuracy causes no loss in algorithm
accuracy. When only the F4-level or F6-level Winograd
algorithm is used, better acceleration effects can be achieved,
but the accuracy of the algorithm will drop dramatically.
To avoid this problem, we devise a hybrid (i.e., F2 and F4)
Winograd algorithm, where the training process determines
which level of the Winograd algorithm is chosen and used at
which layer of the algorithm, thus reducing the MAC workload
as much as possible with an acceptable loss in algorithm
accuracy.
The transformation operation of the F6 Winograd algorithm
has an excessively high power cost, and the accuracy loss
of F6 is too large [23]. For this reason, we only employ
F2, F4, and regular spatial-domain CONV operations to
optimize the performance of a CiM-based processor at the
microarchitecture level. Fig. 9(c) illustrates the principle of
operation of the F4 Winograd algorithm on 3 × 3 CONV.
The spatial-domain CONV workload is converted into an
elementwise matrix multiplication (EWMM) operation in the
Winograd domain via a transformation operation, resulting
in a four times reduction in MAC workload. The area and
power cost of this transformation operation are minimized by
customizing the transformation unit. The Winograd-domain
CONV dataflow is shown in Fig. 10. The three transformation
OUs, BT ()B, G()GT , and AT ()A, are used to carry out the
Winograd transformation operation of F2 or F4 according to
the instructions decoded by the top control unit. The input and
output buffers are placed to organize the input and output data,
respectively. The implementation of the Winograd algorithm
in this work is introduced in detail in Section V-B.
B. Workload Conversion and Mapping
The hybrid Winograd algorithm must adapt to CONV work-
loads with different kernel sizes and different strides. Given
this, we propose kernel decomposition and activation/kernel
tile segmentation. Fig. 9(a) exemplifies the principle of this
Authorized licensed use limited to: University of Electronic Science and Tech of China. Downloaded on August 13,2026 at 04:10:22 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

===== PAGE 7 =====
WU et al.: 28-nm 19.9-TO-258.5-TOPS/W 8b DIGITAL COMPUTING-IN-MEMORY PROCESSOR
353
Fig. 9.
(a) Example of decomposition for CONV with 7 × 7 kernel, (b) example of activation data segmentation for CONV with stride = 2, and (c) details
of F4 [F(4, 3)] Winograd-domain 3 × 3 CONV.
Fig. 10.
Winograd-domain CONV dataflow.
method for a CONV workload with stride = 1 and a large
(e.g., >3 × 3) kernel. A kernel larger than 3 × 3 can
be decomposed into multiple 3 × 3 kernels, to which the
Winograd algorithm can be applied at different levels. For a
CONV workload where stride = 2, the activation segmentation
method is used. Fig. 9(b) shows the implementation of this
method with the 5 × 5 kernel, where the activation tile and 5 ×
5 kernel are divided into areas of four different colors. The 3 ×
3 kernel processes the 3 × 3 CONV workload with stride =
1 in the activation area with the same color, and the workload
shown by each color in Fig. 9(b) can be accelerated by the
Winograd algorithm. This segmentation method can also be
applied to CONV workloads with other kernel sizes (e.g., 3 ×
3 or 7 × 7) with stride = 2. In the above operations, the
kernel decomposition and segmentation operations are imple-
mented offline, and the activation segmentation operations are
executed in the on-chip input buffer.
We exploit a pixel/channel order (PCO) mapping method
for efficient mapping of the different levels of the Winograd-
domain workload. The CiM macro can accumulate the
resulting products of different rows in the same column
to perform the inner product operation, which we call
as row accumulation function. As shown in Fig. 9, the
Winograd-domain CONV needs to execute the EWMM oper-
ation. Unlike a normal CONV, this operation does not need to
accumulate all the result values in a single kernel. The only
addition operation in EWMM is the addition of the results
of different input channels (Cin) with the same output channel
(Cout). Thus, in the intramacro, we use channel order mapping
(COM) and exploit the row accumulation function of the CiM
macro to realize the addition of different Cin product results.
We use pixel order mapping (POM) in the intermacro to ensure
good scalability of parallelism. Fig. 11 illustrates the mapping
principle of the Winograd-domain workload for F2 and F4,
where COM is used in a single 4 × 32 macro, and POM is
used between multiple 4 × 32 macros.
Workloads with larger numbers of Cin and Cout can achieve
higher hardware utilization, as the sizes of Cin and Cout may be
much larger than the size of the macro, meaning that the macro
will easily be filled by the workload. In contrast, workloads
with small numbers of Cin and Cout usually have lower
hardware utilization, as there is space in the macro that is not
filled by the workload. For this reason, we use a smaller 4 ×
32 macro as a single CiM macro that can be scheduled
in conjunction with the PCO mapping method to achieve
higher hardware utilization on different types of workloads.
For workloads with small numbers of Cin and Cout, each macro
supports a minimum workload mapping of 4Cin and 4Cout
for a single pixel. The use of multiple 4 × 32 macros can
Authorized licensed use limited to: University of Electronic Science and Tech of China. Downloaded on August 13,2026 at 04:10:22 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

===== PAGE 8 =====
354
IEEE JOURNAL OF SOLID-STATE CIRCUITS, VOL. 60, NO. 1, JANUARY 2025
Fig. 11.
Pixel/channel-order mapping method for F2&F4 Winograd-domain
CONV.
Fig. 12.
Accuracy and speedup for the hybrid Winograd algorithm.
enable pixel-level parallelism to improve hardware utilization.
For large numbers of Cin and Cout, where the workload size
is much larger than the macro size, high rates of hardware
utilization can also be achieved.
C. Accuracy/Speedup Analysis
Fig. 12 shows a plot of the evaluation data for our hybrid
Winograd method. For comparison, we conducted four test
cases on ResNet34 with the ImageNet dataset. The use of
an F2-level Winograd algorithm alone gives higher accuracy,
but has an acceleration effect of only 1.92×. Using an F4-
level Winograd algorithm alone gives a speedup of 3.32×,
but the accuracy of the algorithm drops by 9.1% compared to
the baseline, which is unacceptable for most tasks. The hybrid
Winograd algorithm proposed in this work uses different levels
of optimization at different layers in the network to balance
the speedup and accuracy very effectively. Compared with the
baseline, we see a performance improvement of 2.59× with
a loss of only 0.6% in accuracy. This proves that our hybrid
Winograd optimization method can yield high performance
with almost no accuracy loss for general CNN workloads. The
transformation units required by F2 and F4 are implemented
using custom hardwired modules. The area (power) of the
F2-level and F4-level transformation circuits accounts for
0.91% (5.33%) and 10.76% (15.97%) of the total, respectively.
VI. MDPS STRATEGY FOR MACROLEVEL OPTIMIZATION
A. MDPS Strategy
As mentioned in [27], it is very hard to implement unstruc-
tured fine-grained sparsity in CiM-based processors due to the
rigid array structure of the CiM macro. The application of
structured sparsity can alleviate this issue, but this approach
is less general, usually requires modifying the loss function
for training of the algorithm, and is accompanied by accuracy
loss. Structured sparsity with a high sparsity rate will cause
the accuracy of the algorithm to drop even further. On the
hardware side, the randomly distributed structured sparse data
also result in extra computing cycles [12]. To fully utilize the
sparsity of dual-side (activation and weight) data in the NN
algorithm and to solve the problems raised in previous work,
we propose the MDPS strategy. As shown in Fig. 13, for the
weight data, we apply a horizontal compression method to
improve the utilization of the CiM macro. This compression
method changes only the column position of each weight
data in the CiM macro, without changing its row position,
so it does not introduce reentry of activation data due to
the random distribution of sparse data. Sparse weight data
will not be stored in CiM macros, meaning that the saved
macros can be used to map other workloads (Fig. 13). For
the activation data, the proposed strategy strikes a balance
between element-level and data block-level sparsity. As shown
in Fig. 13, the activation data are converted into compressed
activation data and bit-mask data, which are used for spar-
sity calculation control. Whenever there are four consecutive
sparse data in the activation data, the calculation of this part
of the data is skipped, corresponding to the input size of
the single 4 × 32 macro. The key to the proposed sparsity
optimization method is scheduling only at the macrolevel to
avoid the problems caused by the inflexibility of the CiM rigid
array in the macro. Different macros are processed in parallel.
B. MDPS Scheme
Figs. 14 and 15 demonstrate the architecture and workflow
of our MDPS scheme. The sparsity-control microarchitecture
consists of three main modules, ISPU, PPRS, and OMB. The
bit-mask generator in the ISPU generates bit-mask data for the
activation data. The tile compressor and tile allocator are used
for processing the noncompressed activation data. Each 36 ×
32 macro has a 1 kB OMB for rearranging the MAC results.
To explain the proposed sparsity principle in detail, we divide
the entire sparsity processing procedure into three parts: 1)
activation data processing; 2) right shift accumulation MAC
calculation; and 3) merging of the MAC results.
1) As shown in Fig. 14, the uncompressed activation data
are first sent to the ISPU, and the bit-mask genera-
tor generates bit-mask data based on the sparsity of
the activation data for sparsity optimization control.
According to the principle described in Section V-A,
since calculations of four consecutive sparse data are
skipped, this part of the consecutive sparse data in the
activation data will be removed by the tile compressor.
The remaining activation data will be input into the CiM
macro in sequence by the tile allocator for calculation.
Authorized licensed use limited to: University of Electronic Science and Tech of China. Downloaded on August 13,2026 at 04:10:22 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

===== PAGE 9 =====
WU et al.: 28-nm 19.9-TO-258.5-TOPS/W 8b DIGITAL COMPUTING-IN-MEMORY PROCESSOR
355
Fig. 13.
Procedure of the proposed MDPS strategy.
2) As described in Section V-A, the weight data stored in
the CiM macro will be compressed in the horizontal
direction before calculation to improve the utilization
of the CiM macro. The direction of weight data com-
pression is to the left, meaning that each P[10:0] in
the macro needs to be moved back to the correct
position before entering the AT and accumulator so that
the accumulation operations of different rows can be
calculated correctly. The PPRS will shift the correct
P[10:0] value to the input end of the four-input AT based
on the weight index data.
3) The first two steps skip the invalid sparse data workloads
and only compute the valid dense data. These valid
MAC calculation results need to be written to the correct
location in the output tile, and this part of the operation
is performed in the OMB. As shown in Fig. 15, the
weight index and the merge config data generated by the
bit-mask data are used to control the writing address of
the buffer to achieve the merging operation. The valid
MAC calculation result is written to the correct location
in the buffer subarray, and the zero-value data are
written to the blank location. When all the data in the
tile have been calculated, the OMB outputs the complete
tile for the subsequent calculations. In step 2) it may
happen that the PPRS circuit cannot remap all the data
Fig. 14.
Architecture and principle of step 1), activation data processing,
and step 2), the right shift accumulation MAC calculation, in the proposed
MDPS strategy.
to the AT and accumulator unit because there are too
many Cout as shown in Fig. 13. These partial product
data will be sent directly to the OMB in an interval
cycle after the AT and accumulator unit completes
the complement code addition operation. As shown in
Fig. 15, the tiles from OMB transformed by AT ()A are
sent to SIMD in the interval cycle to implement addition
calculation. We implement the addition of these partial
products using SIMD and data paths between global
SRAM because our proposed CiM macro outputs a
complete result every two cycles. To achieve latency
hiding, we perform these operations in an interval cycle
to minimize pauses caused by sparse data.
C. Performance Evaluation
Fig. 16 shows the evaluation of the MDPS strategy. The
benchmark was the entire ResNet34 applied to the Top-5 task
on the ImageNet dataset. We compressed the weight data of the
algorithm with a sparsity rate of 50% through quantification,
and selected activation data with a sparsity rate of 50% for test-
ing. It can be seen that the performance improvement brought
by the 50% activation/weight data is 1.84×, and 1.76×
respectively. The proposed method achieves an improvement
of 3.11× in the energy efficiency in the ResNet34 test environ-
ment described above. The microarchitectural circuits used for
sparsity control were ISPU, PPSR, and OMB, with the extra
area and power consumption accounting for 4.5% and 7.8% of
the overall totals, respectively. This proves that our developed
MDPS method is a very efficient sparsity optimization strategy.
VII. MEASUREMENT RESULTS
A. Fabricated Chip and Measurement Platform
Fig. 17 shows the layout of the chip and a performance
summary. The proposed CiM-based processor was fabricated
Authorized licensed use limited to: University of Electronic Science and Tech of China. Downloaded on August 13,2026 at 04:10:22 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

===== PAGE 10 =====
356
IEEE JOURNAL OF SOLID-STATE CIRCUITS, VOL. 60, NO. 1, JANUARY 2025
Fig. 15.
Principle of operation of step 3), merging of MAC results.
Fig. 16.
Evaluation of our MDPS method in terms of speed up by sparse
activation/weight data.
using 28-nm CMOS technology and occupied a total area of
6.02 mm2. The test platform of the CiM-based accelerator
included a host PC, a Xilinx ZCU-106 field-programmable
gate array (FPGA) board, a test printed circuit board (PCB),
two FPGA mezzanine connector (FMC) boards, a dc power
supply, and an oscilloscope. As illustrated in Fig. 18, our chip
was stacked on the test PCB. The oscilloscope was used to
track the working status signal of the chip. All the data from
the test dataset and weight data for the network were preloaded
from the FPGA dynamic random access memory (DRAM)
into the on-chip weight SRAM through the FMC board. The
FPGA input a test signal to the test chip and performed data
transmission, and the calculation result was collected by the
FPGA and returned to the host PC for verification purposes.
The core voltage of our prototype could be adjusted between
0.6 and 1.1 V when setting the I/O voltage of 2.5 V, and
the working frequency ranged from 78 to 287 MHz. The
power consumption for all the on-chip digital logic and CiM
macro was included, but the power required for the chip I/O
and FPGA DRAM was excluded. The peak system energy
efficiency reached 258.5 TOPS/W with three features at 0.6 V
and 116 MHz.
B. Test Benchmark
To assess the performance of our CiM-based processor,
we trained two typical algorithms, ResNet34 and ResNet50,
TABLE II
OVERALL EVALUATION ON DIFFERENT NN MODELS
TABLE III
WINOGRAD CONVOLUTION TYPE OF EACH LAYER
and tested them on our chip on the Top-5 and Top-1 tasks,
respectively, using the ImageNet dataset. Table II presents
performance evaluation data for these two typical algorithms.
Compared with the floating-point baseline results, the accuracy
losses of the two algorithms were reduced by 0.65% and
2.15%, respectively. Model quantization is the main source of
accuracy loss, and another part of the slight decline comes
from the optimization of the Winograd algorithm. In the
absence of sparsity optimization, our hybrid Winograd opti-
mization method gives accelerations of 2.59× and 1.51×,
respectively. When the two acceleration methods (the hybrid
Winograd algorithm and the MDPS strategy) are merged and
tested on 50% weight sparsity and 50% activation sparsity, the
speedup reaches 8.05× and 4.85×, respectively.
Authorized licensed use limited to: University of Electronic Science and Tech of China. Downloaded on August 13,2026 at 04:10:22 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

===== PAGE 11 =====
WU et al.: 28-nm 19.9-TO-258.5-TOPS/W 8b DIGITAL COMPUTING-IN-MEMORY PROCESSOR
357
Fig. 17.
Chip photograph along with performance summary.
Fig. 18.
Test platform of our CiM-based processor chip.
C. Winograd and Sparsity Contribution
We present the breakdown of the accuracy loss by quanti-
zation and also provide information about the Winograd level
to which the convolutional layers belong in the algorithms we
tested. These data have been supplemented to Tables II and III,
respectively. It can be observed that for ResNet50, the accu-
racy caused by quantization decreases more. The improved
Winograd algorithm proposed in our second innovative point
TABLE IV
NORMALIZED PEAK SYSTEM THROUGHPUT OF EVERY REFERENCE
does not significantly reduce the accuracy of the algorithm.
This is mainly because the Winograd algorithm to which the
convolutional layers belong is adjustable. From the data in
Table II, it can be seen that the acceleration effect of the
Winograd algorithm is more obvious on ResNet34. This is
because ResNet34 accounts for a higher proportion of 3 ×
3 convolution calculations at 96.2% compared to ResNet50,
while the proportion of 3 × 3 convolution calculations in
ResNet50 is only 47.9%.
Authorized licensed use limited to: University of Electronic Science and Tech of China. Downloaded on August 13,2026 at 04:10:22 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

===== PAGE 12 =====
358
IEEE JOURNAL OF SOLID-STATE CIRCUITS, VOL. 60, NO. 1, JANUARY 2025
TABLE V
COMPARISON WITH STATE-OF-THE-ART DIGITAL CiM-BASED PROCESSORS
TABLE VI
COMPARISON OF DIGITAL AND CiM ARCHITECTURE
Previous work on the efficiency of sparsity in the Wino-
grad domain has addressed this issue well at the algorithmic
level [29]. It places the weight data pruning after the Winograd
transformation instead of before. We use the method in [28]
and [29] to get the weight data after Winograd transformation
off-chip. Using the above method, the sparsity of the data
is not affected by the Winograd transformation. This part of
the weight data is stored in the CiM macro in a sparsity
compression manner. The sparsity compression and storage
operations are implemented by the SIMD unit.
D. Comparison With the State of the Art
In many previous works, the number of computing units
and the working frequency were different, which would make
comparison difficult throughout. For this reason, we used
a new indicator, which is called “normalized peak system
throughput.” This indicator is used to describe the peak
system throughput per MAC unit and MHz. The formula for
calculating this indicator in INT8 × INT8 is as follows:
The result after simplifying the above formula is
The simplified formula can be used to fairly compare the
throughput performance of different CiM-based processors.
From the formula, we can see that this indicator is only related
to the number of calculation cycles of CiM macro for INT8 ×
INT8 and the contribution of other technologies to throughput
improvement. Table IV gives the specific calculation data for
each reference in Table V of the article. All the improvement
coefficients of each technology in the data Table IV for this
indicator can be found in the corresponding article. Each
coefficient takes the maximum value of the corresponding
technology. Among them, 5.87 of Technology 2 in [13] comes
from 75/12.8 = 5.87 in the summary table.
Table V compares our design with state-of-the-art CiM-
based processors. To ensure a fair comparison of the system
energy efficiency, we scale the reported peak energy efficiency
of existing schemes from their technologies and supply volt-
age to 28 nm and 0.6 V. The study in [13] reported an
energy-efficient CiM core for handling dense data calculations
and a flexible digital core for handling random unstructured
sparse data calculations. However, the sizes of the intensive
and sparse workloads are different for different algorithms.
The workloads processed by two computing cores may be
unbalanced, which may result in one core being in an idle
state for a long time with low hardware utilization. Tu et
al. [15] presented a reconfigurable Radix4-based processor
that reduced the number of CiM calculation cycles of the
bit-serial method by half. The schemes in [8], [9], and [10]
were based only on a digital CiM macro. The processor in [17]
exploited attention/token sparsity to specifically accelerate
multimodal transformer tasks and introduced bit sparsity as
Authorized licensed use limited to: University of Electronic Science and Tech of China. Downloaded on August 13,2026 at 04:10:22 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

===== PAGE 13 =====
WU et al.: 28-nm 19.9-TO-258.5-TOPS/W 8b DIGITAL COMPUTING-IN-MEMORY PROCESSOR
359
Normalized peak system throughput =
Operating frequency ∗number of MAC units ∗2
Operating frequency ∗number of MAC units ∗2 ∗number of calculation cycles
∗Throughput improvement by other technologies
(4)
normalized peak system throughput =
1
number of calculation cycles ∗throughput improvement by other technologies
(5)
a natural sparsity optimization method for a general work-
load. We note that bit sparsity optimization can reduce the
number of the CiM calculation cycles, but its reduction rate is
determined by the sparsity rate of the activation data. In [18],
a processor was designed to target the GCN and DLRM
tasks with a sparse gather mode and sparse algebra mode.
In this work, we propose a combination of a Radix16 +
LUT and hybrid Winograd CONV algorithm as a universal
optimization method for general workloads at the circuit level
and microarchitecture level, respectively, which can greatly
enhance the throughput of a CiM-based processor while
maximizing the energy efficiency of the computing system.
The three contributions of this article relate to optimizing
the performance of the CiM architecture for general CONV
workload and GEMM calculations. Hence, the three proposed
methods do not conflict with the unique sparsity optimization
method of the NN algorithm (e.g., attention/token sparsity in
a transformer), and the two are hierarchically decoupled. Our
CiM-based processor achieves a peak system energy efficiency
of 258.5-TOPS/W in the best case for INT8, representing an
increase of 2.55–7.08× compared with prior art.
VIII. CONCLUSION AND DISCUSSION
This article proposed a CiM-based processor to overcome
the issue of finding a trade-off between energy efficiency
and throughput at the same frequency. We devised universal
improvement strategies at three levels. At the circuit level,
a Radix16 + LUT-based digital CiM architecture was used to
realize two-cycle CiM macros. At the microarchitecture level,
a hybrid Winograd CONV microarchitecture, and dataflow
were designed to reduce the workload with almost no loss of
accuracy. At the data level, a new macrolevel parallel dual-side
sparsity strategy was devised for sparse data in NNs. When
used with different NNs, such as transformer or GCN/DLRM,
our three methods can still achieve general performance
improvements at three levels. These three techniques are
independent of each other and do not interfere with each other.
Every technique can be applied as a general-purpose opti-
mization technique at a specific level in the processor design
field. Herein, evaluation data for each technology proves this
layer-decoupling method can help processors improve their
performance at each level efficiently.
The following Table VI summarizes the characteristics of
the traditional digital architectures and CiM architectures. This
work strives to devise universal technologies at different levels
to help CiM maintain its high computing energy efficiency and
make its throughput gradually catch up with the traditional
digital scheme. Hopefully, the techniques proposed herein
can further assist the CiM architecture in its journey toward
universality. A 28-nm prototype approached the best system
energy efficiency of 258.5 TOPS/W at 0.65 V and 116 MHz.
REFERENCES
[1] Y. Wang, C. Zhang, Z. Xie, C. Guo, Y. Liu, and J. Leng, “Dual-side
sparse tensor core,” in Proc. ACM/IEEE 48th Annu. Int. Symp. Comput.
Archit. (ISCA), Valencia, Spain, 2021, pp. 1083–1095.
[2] Y. Zhao et al., “Cambricon-Q: A hybrid architecture for efficient
training,” in Proc. ACM/IEEE 48th Annu. Int. Symp. Comput. Archit.
(ISCA), Valencia, Spain, Jun. 2021, pp. 706–719.
[3] J. -W. Jang, “Sparsity-aware and re-configurable NPU architecture for
Samsung flagship mobile SoC,” in Proc. ACM/IEEE 48th Annu. Int.
Symp. Comput. Archit. (ISCA), Valencia, Spain, 2021, pp. 15–28.
[4] N. P. Jouppi et al., “Ten lessons from three generations shaped Google’s
TPUv4i : Industrial product,” in Proc. ACM/IEEE 48th Annu. Int. Symp.
Comput. Archit. (ISCA), Valencia, Spain, Jun. 2021, pp. 1–14.
[5] Y. Wang et al., “Trainer: An energy-efficient edge-device training proces-
sor supporting dynamic weight pruning,” IEEE J. Solid-State Circuits,
vol. 57, no. 10, pp. 3164–3178, Oct. 2022.
[6] Y. Wang et al., “An energy-efficient transformer processor exploiting
dynamic weak relevances in global attention,” IEEE J. Solid-State
Circuits, vol. 58, no. 1, pp. 227–242, Jan. 2023.
[7] N. Verma et al., “In-memory computing: Advances and prospects,” IEEE
Solid-State Circuits Mag., vol. 11, no. 3, pp. 43–55, Aug. 2019.
[8] Y. -D. Chih et al., “16.4 An 89TOPS/W and 16.3TOPS/mm2 all-digital
SRAM-based full-precision compute-in memory macro in 22 nm for
machine-learning edge applications,” in Proc. IEEE Int. Solid-State
Circuits Conf., 2021, pp. 252–254.
[9] C.-F. Lee et al., “A 12 nm 121-TOPS/W 41.6-TOPS/mm2 all digital full
precision SRAM-based compute-in-memory with configurable bit-width
for AI edge applications,” in Proc. IEEE Symp. VLSI Technol. Circuits
(VLSI Technol. Circuits), Honolulu, HI, USA, Jun. 2022, pp. 24–25.
[10] H. Fujiwara et al., “A 5-nm 254-TOPS/W 221-TOPS/mm2 fully-digital
computing-in-memory macro supporting wide-range dynamic-voltage-
frequency scaling and simultaneous MAC and write operations,” in
IEEE Int. Solid-State Circuits Conf. (ISSCC) Dig. Tech. Papers, vol. 65,
San Francisco, CA, USA, Feb. 2022, pp. 1–3.
[11] J. Yue et al., “14.3 A 65 nm computing-in-memory-based CNN
processor with 2.9-to-35.8TOPS/W system energy efficiency using
dynamic-sparsity performance-scaling architecture and energy-efficient
inter/intra-macro data reuse,” in IEEE Int. Solid-State Circuits Conf.
(ISSCC) Dig. Tech. Papers, San Francisco, CA, USA, Feb. 2020,
pp. 234–236.
[12] J. Yue et al., “15.2 A 2.75-to-75.9TOPS/W computing-in-memory NN
processor supporting set-associate block-wise zero skipping and ping-
pong CIM with simultaneous computation and weight updating,” in
IEEE Int. Solid-State Circuits Conf. (ISSCC) Dig. Tech. Papers, vol. 64,
San Francisco, CA, USA, Feb. 2021, pp. 238–240.
[13] J. Yue et al., “A 28 nm 16.9–300TOPS/W computing-in-memory
processor supporting floating-point NN inference/training with intensive-
CIM sparse-digital architecture,” in IEEE Int. Solid-State Circuits Conf.
(ISSCC) Dig. Tech. Papers, San Francisco, CA, USA, Feb. 2023,
pp. 1–3.
[14] J. Yue et al., “A 5.6–89.9TOPS/W heterogeneous computing-in-memory
SoC with high-utilization producer-consumer architecture and high-
frequency read-free CIM macro,” in Proc. IEEE Symp. VLSI Technol.
Circuits (VLSI Technol. Circuits), Kyoto, Japan, Jun. 2023, pp. 1–2.
Authorized licensed use limited to: University of Electronic Science and Tech of China. Downloaded on August 13,2026 at 04:10:22 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

===== PAGE 14 =====
360
IEEE JOURNAL OF SOLID-STATE CIRCUITS, VOL. 60, NO. 1, JANUARY 2025
[15] F. Tu et al., “A 28 nm 29.2TFLOPS/W BF16 and 36.5TOPS/W INT8
reconfigurable digital CIM processor with unified FP/INT pipeline
and bitwise in-memory booth multiplication for cloud deep learning
acceleration,” in IEEE Int. Solid-State Circuits Conf. (ISSCC) Dig. Tech.
Papers, vol. 65, San Francisco, CA, USA, Feb. 2022, pp. 1–3.
[16] F. Tu et al., “A 28 nm 15.59µJ/token full-digital bitline-transpose
CIM-based sparse transformer accelerator with pipeline/parallel recon-
figurable modes,” in IEEE Int. Solid-State Circuits Conf. (ISSCC) Dig.
Tech. Papers, vol. 65, San Francisco, CA, USA, Feb. 2022, pp. 466–468.
[17] F. Tu et al., “16.1 MuITCIM: A 28nm 2.24 µJ/token attention-token-bit
hybrid sparse digital CIM-based accelerator for multimodal transform-
ers,” in IEEE Int. Solid-State Circuits Conf. (ISSCC) Dig. Tech. Papers,
San Francisco, CA, USA, Feb. 2023, pp. 248–250.
[18] F. Tu et al., “16.4 TensorCIM: A 28 nm 3.7nJ/gather and 8.3TFLOPS/W
FP32 digital-CIM tensor processor for MCM-CIM-based beyond-NN
acceleration,” in IEEE Int. Solid-State Circuits Conf. (ISSCC) Dig. Tech.
Papers, San Francisco, CA, USA, Feb. 2023, pp. 254–256.
[19] H. Zhu et al., “COMB-MCM: Computing-on-memory-boundary NN
processor with bipolar bitwise sparsity optimization for scalable multi-
chiplet-module edge machine learning,” in IEEE Int. Solid-State Circuits
Conf. (ISSCC) Dig. Tech. Papers, vol. 65, San Francisco, CA, USA,
Feb. 2022, pp. 1–3.
[20] T.-H. Wen et al., “A 28 nm nonvolatile AI edge processor using 4Mb
analog-based near-memory-compute ReRAM with 27.2 TOPS/W for
tiny AI edge devices,” in Proc. IEEE Symp. VLSI Technol. Circuits (VLSI
Technol. Circuits), Kyoto, Japan Jun. 2023, pp. 1–2.
[21] A. Lavin and S. Gray, “Fast algorithms for convolutional neural net-
works,” in Proc. IEEE Conf. Comput. Vis. Pattern Recognit. (CVPR),
Las Vegas, NV, USA, Jun. 2016, pp. 4013–4021.
[22] C. Yang, Y. Wang, X. Wang, and L. Geng, “WRA: A 2.2-to-6.3 Tops
highly unified dynamically reconfigurable accelerator using a novel
Winograd decomposition algorithm for convolutional neural networks,”
IEEE Trans. Circuits Syst. I, Reg. Papers, vol. 66, no. 9, pp. 3480–3493,
Sep. 2019.
[23] V. Chikin and V. Kryzhanovskiy, “Channel balancing for accurate quan-
tization of Winograd convolutions,” in Proc. IEEE/CVF Conf. Comput.
Vis. Pattern Recognit. (CVPR), New Orleans, LA, USA, Jun. 2022,
pp. 12497–12506.
[24] S. Han, J. Pool, J. Tran, and W. Dally, “Learning both weights and
connections for efficient neural network,” in Proc. Adv. Neural Inf.
Process. Syst., 2015, pp. 1135–1143.
[25] H. Mao et al., “Exploring the granularity of sparsity in convolutional
neural networks,” in Proc. IEEE Conf. Comput. Vis. Pattern Recognit.
Workshops (CVPRW), Honolulu, HI, USA, Jul. 2017, pp. 1927–1934.
[26] W. Wen, C. Wu, Y. Wang, Y. Chen, and H. Li, “Learning structured
sparsity in deep neural networks,” in Proc. Adv. Neural Inf. Process.
Syst., vol. 29, 2016, pp. 1–9.
[27] F. Tu et al., “SDP: Co-designing algorithm, dataflow, and architecture for
in-SRAM sparse NN acceleration,” IEEE Trans. Comput.-Aided Design
Integr. Circuits Syst., vol. 42, no. 1, pp. 109–121, Jan. 2023.
[28] J. Fernandez-Marques, P. Whatmough, A. Mundy, and M. Mattina,
“Searching
for
winograd-aware
quantized
networks,”
in
Proc.
Mach. Learn. Syst., vol. 2, 2020, pp. 14–29.
[29] X. Liu, J. Pool, S. Han, and W. J. Dally, “Efficient sparse-winograd
convolutional neural networks,” 2018, arXiv:1802.06367.
[30] R. Andri, B. Bussolino, A. Cipolletta, L. Cavigelli, and Z. Wang,
“Going further with Winograd convolutions: Tap-wise quantization for
efficient inference on 4×4 tiles,” in Proc. 55th IEEE/ACM Int. Symp.
Microarchitecture (MICRO), Chicago, IL, USA, Oct. 2022, pp. 582–598.
[31] Y. Wang, F. Tu, L. Liu, S. Wei, Y. Xie, and S. Yin, “SPCIM: Sparsity-
balanced practical CIM accelerator with optimized spatial–temporal
multi-macro utilization,” IEEE Trans. Circuits Syst. I, Reg. Papers,
vol. 70, no. 1, pp. 214–227, Jan. 2023.
[32] C.-Y. Tsai, C.-F. Nien, T.-C. Yu, H.-Y. Yeh, and H.-Y. Cheng, “RePIM:
Joint exploitation of activation and weight repetitions for in-ReRAM
DNN acceleration,” in Proc. 58th ACM/IEEE Design Autom. Conf.
(DAC), San Francisco, CA, USA, Dec. 2021, pp. 589–594.
[33] T.-H. Yang et al., “Sparse ReRAM engine: Joint exploration of activation
and weight sparsity in compressed neural networks,” in Proc. ACM/IEEE
46th Annu. Int. Symp. Comput. Archit. (ISCA), Phoenix, AZ, USA,
Jun. 2019, pp. 236–249.
[34] J. H. Shin et al., “Griffin: Rethinking sparse optimization for deep
learning architectures,” in Proc. IEEE Int. Symp. High-Performance
Comput. Archit. (HPCA), Seoul, South Korea, Apr. 2022, pp. 861–875.
[35] H. Wu et al., “A 28-nm computing-in-memory-based super-resolution
accelerator incorporating macro-level pipeline and texture/algebraic
sparsity,” IEEE Trans. Circuits Syst. I, Reg. Papers, vol. 71, no. 2,
pp. 689–702, Feb. 2024.
[36] Y. Yuan et al., “34.6 A 28 nm 72.12TFLOPS/W hybrid-domain outer-
product based floating-point SRAM computing-in-memory macro with
logarithm bit-width residual ADC,” in IEEE Int. Solid-State Circuits
Conf. (ISSCC) Dig. Tech. Papers, San Francisco, CA, USA, Feb. 2024,
pp. 576–578.
Hao Wu (Member, IEEE) received the B.S. degree
in integrated circuits and integrated systems from
Xidian University, Xi’an, China. He is currently pur-
suing the Ph.D. degree with the Key Laboratory of
Microelectronics Device and Integrated Technology,
Institute of Microelectronics of Chinese Academy of
Sciences, Beijing, China.
His research interests include static random access
memory (SRAM)-based in-memory computing pro-
cessor and algorithm-architecture co-design.
Yong Chen (Senior Member, IEEE) received the
B.Eng. degree in electronic and information engi-
neering from the Communication University of
China (CUC), Beijing, China, in 2005, and the Ph.D.
degree in microelectronics and solid-state electronics
engineering from the Institute of Microelectronics of
Chinese Academy of Sciences (IMECAS), Beijing,
in 2010.
From 2010 to 2013, he worked as a Post-Doctoral
Researcher with the Institute of Microelectronics,
Tsinghua University, Beijing. From 2013 to 2016,
he was a Research Fellow with VIRTUS/EEE, Nanyang Technological
University, Singapore. Then, he was an Assistant Professor from 2016 to
2022 and an Associate Professor from 2022 to 2024 with the State Key
Laboratory of Analog and Mixed-Signal VLSI (AMSV), University of Macau,
Macau, China. In 2024, he joined the Department of Electronic Engineering,
Tsinghua University, where he is currently an Associate Professor. His
research interests include integrated circuit designs involving analog/mixed-
signal/RF/mm-wave/sub-THz/wireline.
Dr. Chen was a recipient of the “Haixi” (three places across the Straits)
Postgraduate Integrated Circuit Design Competition (Second Prize) in 2009,
a co-recipient of the Best Paper Award at the IEEE Asia Pacific Conference
on Circuits and Systems (APCCAS) in 2019, the Best Student Paper Award
(Third Place) at the IEEE Radio Frequency Integrated Circuits (RFIC)
Symposium in 2021, the Macao Science and Technology Invention Award
(First Prize) in 2020, and the Macao Science and Technology Invention Award
(Second Prize) in 2022, and the Gold Leaf Prize (Top 10% Papers) at the
18th International Conference on Ph.D. Research in Microelectronics and
Electronics (PRIME) in 2023. He was recognized as the top five associate
editors in 2020, the five highest-performing associate editors in 2021, one
of the three best associate editors in 2022, one of the three best reviewers
of IEEE TRANSACTION ON VERY LARGE SCALE INTEGRATION SYSTEMS
in 2022, and one of the inaugural SSCS reviewer rewards of the IEEE
Solid-State Circuits Society (SSCS) in 2023. He serves as an Associate
Editor for IEEE TRANSACTION ON VERY LARGE SCALE INTEGRATION
SYSTEMS since 2019, a Subject Editor (2022) for Circuits and Systems of IET
Electronics Letters and an Associate Editor (2020–2023) of IET Electronics
Letters, an Editor of International Journal of Circuit Theory and Applications
(IJCTA) since 2020, a Guest Editor (2022–2023) of IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON
CIRCUITS AND SYSTEMS I: REGULAR PAPERS in 2022, and a Guest Editor
(2021–2022) of IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON CIRCUITS AND SYSTEMS II:
EXPRESS BRIEFS. He serves as a Vice-Chair (2019–2021) and a Chair (2021–
2023) of IEEE Macau CAS Chapter and the Technical Program Committees
of several international conferences.
Authorized licensed use limited to: University of Electronic Science and Tech of China. Downloaded on August 13,2026 at 04:10:22 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

===== PAGE 15 =====
WU et al.: 28-nm 19.9-TO-258.5-TOPS/W 8b DIGITAL COMPUTING-IN-MEMORY PROCESSOR
361
Yiyang Yuan received the B.S. degree in electronic
and information engineering from Beijing Institute
of Technology, Beijing, China, in 2021. He is cur-
rently pursuing the Ph.D. degree with the Institute of
Microelectronics of Chinese Academy of Sciences,
Beijing.
His research interests include compute-in-memory,
resistive random access memory, artificial intelli-
gence, and brain–machine interface.
Jinshan Yue (Member, IEEE) received the B.S. and
Ph.D. degrees from the Department of Electronic
Engineering, Tsinghua University, Beijing, China, in
2016 and 2021, respectively.
He is currently a Post-Doctoral Researcher and
an
Assistant
Researcher
with
the
Institute
of
Microelectronics
of
Chinese
Academy
of
Sci-
ences, Beijing. His current research interests include
energy-efficient
neural
network
processor,
non-
volatile memory, and computing-in-memory sys-
tems.
Dr. Yue served as a TPC Member in IEEE A-SSCC2023 and ICCAD2023.
Xinghua
Wang
(Member, IEEE) received the
B.Eng. and Ph.D. degrees from Beijing Institute of
Technology (BIT), Beijing, China, in 2004 and 2010,
respectively.
She is currently an Associate Professor at the
School of Integrated Circuits and Electronics, BIT.
Her research interests include analog, RF, and
computing-in-memory.
Xiaoran Li (Member, IEEE) received the B.Eng.
degree
in
telecommunication
engineering
from
Beijing University of Posts and Telecommunica-
tions, Beijing, China, in 2011, and the M.E. and
Ph.D. degrees in electronics science and technology
from Beijing Institute of Technology, Beijing, in
2013 and 2017, respectively.
She was a Visiting Scholar with the Depart-
ment of Electrical and Computer, Duke University,
Durham, NC, USA, from 2015 to 2016. She was a
Post-Doctoral Research Fellow with Beijing Institute
of Technology, where she is currently an Assistant Professor. Her research
interests include analog, radio frequency, millimeter-wave integrated circuits
design, computing in memory, sparse sensing, and communications.
Feng Zhang (Senior Member, IEEE) received the
B.S. degree from Beijing Institute of Technology,
Beijing, China, in 2000, and the M.S. and Ph.D.
degrees from the Institute of Microelectronics of
Chinese Academy of Sciences (IMECAS), Beijing,
in 2002 and 2005, respectively.
In 2010, he joined IMECAS as a Professor. He has
published over 80 international journal articles and
conference papers. His research interests include
memory, low-power digital circuits, related hardware
security techniques when applied to the “Smart
Internet of Things (IoT)” field.
Dr. Zhang serves as a Technical Committee Member of the IEEE Circuits
and Systems Society (CASS).
Authorized licensed use limited to: University of Electronic Science and Tech of China. Downloaded on August 13,2026 at 04:10:22 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
