===== PAGE 1 =====
IEEE JOURNAL OF SOLID-STATE CIRCUITS
1
A 28-nm Digital Transpose SRAM
Compute-in-Memory Macro With
Accurate/Approximate Dual Mode for
Floating-Point Edge Training and Inference
Yiyang Yuan , Bingxin Zhang, Yiming Yang, Yishan Luo, Qirui Chen , Haitao Wang, Qihao Liu ,
Zhiming Chen , Hao Wu , Jinshan Yue , Member, IEEE, Shidong Lv, Xinghua Wang ,
Pui-In Mak , Fellow, IEEE, Xiaoran Li , and Feng Zhang , Senior Member, IEEE
Abstract—Static
random-access
memory
(SRAM)-based
computing-in-memory (CIM) macros have been widely studied
to improve the energy eﬃciency of edge artiﬁcial intelligence
(AI) inference tasks. However, less attention has been given to
AI training, which requires CIM macros to not only perform
matrix multiply-accumulate (MAC) operations but also support
matrix transposition. To address the limitations of previous
analog transpose and digital non-transpose SRAM CIM macros,
this work features: 1) a cyclic-weight-mapping SRAM array that
enables matrix transposition and reuse of MAC circuits during
both feed-forward (FF) and back-propagation (BP) phases;
2) a digital CIM architecture employing signed ﬁxed-point
mantissa encode and a vector-wise pre-alignment (VWPA)
scheme, supporting multiple data formats including INT4/8,
FP8, and BF16; and 3) an accurate/approximate dual-mode
bit-parallel MAC circuit (DMBP-MAC) designed to provide a
tradeoﬀbetween computational accuracy and energy eﬃciency.
A
fabricated
28-nm
32-kB
transpose
SRAM
CIM
macro
achieved average energy eﬃciency of 70.2–285.4 TOPS/W in
INT4, 17.5–71.4 TOPS/W in INT8, 51.1–192.3 TFLOPS/W in
FP8, and 12.8–48 TFLOPS/W in BF16.
Received 29 June 2025; revised 30 November 2025 and 12 February 2026;
accepted 24 March 2026. This article was approved by Associate Editor Ken
Takeuchi. This work was supported in part by the National Key Research and
Development Program of China under Grant 2023YFB4402400; in part by the
National Natural Science Foundation of China under Grant 92464201, Grant
U2341218, and Grant 6232241; and in part by Beijing Natural Science Foun-
dation under Grant 4262087 and Grant MIIT TC230A076-1. (Corresponding
authors: Xiaoran Li; Xinghua Wang; Feng Zhang.)
Yiyang Yuan, Bingxin Zhang, Yishan Luo, Hao Wu, Jinshan Yue,
and Feng Zhang are with the Institute of Microelectronics of Chi-
nese Academy of Sciences (IMECAS), Beijing 100029, China (e-mail:
zhangfeng ime@ime.ac.cn).
Yiming Yang, Qirui Chen, Zhiming Chen, Shidong Lv, and Xiaoran Li are
with the School of Integrated Circuits and Electronics, Beijing Institute of
Technology, Beijing 100081, China (e-mail: xiaoran.li@bit.edu.cn).
Haitao Wang is with Chongqing Institute of Microelectronics and Microsys-
tems, Beijing Institute of Technology (BIT), Chongqing 401332, China.
Qihao Liu is with Shandong Sino-Chip Semiconductor Company Ltd.,
Jinan 250101, China.
Xinghua Wang is with the School of Integrated Circuits and Electronics,
Beijing Institute of Technology, Beijing 100081, China, also with Chongqing
Institute of Microelectronics and Microsystems, Beijing Institute of Technol-
ogy, Chongqing 401332, China, also with the Advanced Technology Research
Institute, Beijing Institute of Technology, Jinan 250101, China, and also
with the Yangtze Delta Region Academy, Beijing Institute of Technology,
Jiaxing 314000, China (e-mail: 89811@bit.edu.cn).
Pui-In Mak is with the University of Macau (UM), Macau, China.
Digital Object Identiﬁer 10.1109/JSSC.2026.3679560
Index Terms—Approximate computing, artiﬁcial intelligence
(AI), computing-in-memory (CIM), ﬂoating point (FP), static
random-access memory (SRAM).
I. INTRODUCTION
W
ITH the rapid development of artiﬁcial intelligence
(AI) neural network (NN) models, AI-speciﬁc hard-
ware has been increasingly integrated into edge devices.
However, the massive data transfer between computation
units and memory has become a major bottleneck in terms
of both energy eﬃciency and throughput, especially for
power-constrained edge devices. To address this challenge,
computing-in-memory (CIM) techniques have been proposed
as a promising solution by tightly integrating computing
units with memory cells, signiﬁcantly improving the energy
eﬃciency of AI hardware [1], [2], [3], [4].
Most CIM studies have focused on NN inference [5],
[6], [7], [8], [9], [10], with signiﬁcantly less attention given
to the training process. However, ﬁne-tuning training is a
critical phase in edge NN model deployment, as it enhances
pre-trained model performance by learning patterns from
user data and real-world data, which enables pre-trained
models to deliver personalized services and adapt to real-
world environmental changes [11]. As illustrated in Fig. 1(a)
and (b), compared to training NN models on cloud servers,
edge-based training oﬀers advantages such as lower latency,
reduced power consumption, and enhanced privacy protection
by avoiding the need to upload local data to remote servers.
In NN model training, the two fundamental phases are
feed-forward (FF) computation and back-propagation (BP). As
illustrated in Fig. 1(c), the FF phase is identical to that of
inference, while the BP phase involves multiplying the error
gradient with the transposed weight matrix. Several studies
have proposed transpose-enabled CIM macros to support both
FF and BP operations [12], [13]. Furthermore, on-chip training
architectures based on such transpose CIM macros have also
been explored [14]. However, the training phase is highly
sensitive to accuracy loss, which is markedly diﬀerent from
the inference phase. Most previous transpose CIM macros
are based on analog CIM schemes, which are susceptible to
0018-9200 © 2026 IEEE. All rights reserved, including rights for text and data mining, and training of artiﬁcial intelligence and
similar technologies. Personal use is permitted, but republication/redistribution requires IEEE permission.
See https://www.ieee.org/publications/rights/index.html for more information.
This article has been accepted for inclusion in a future issue of this journal. Content is final as presented, with the exception of pagination. 
Authorized licensed use limited to: University of Electronic Science and Tech of China. Downloaded on August 13,2026 at 04:11:57 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

===== PAGE 2 =====
2
IEEE JOURNAL OF SOLID-STATE CIRCUITS
Fig. 1. (a) Remote training in cloud sever. (b) Local training in edge device.
(c) Training computation dataﬂow.
process, voltage, and temperature (PVT) variations. Moreover,
the data formats supported by these macros are often limited
to integers (INTs), which can lead to instability during the
training process.
This work proposes a 28-nm digital 6T bit-cell ﬂoating-
point (FP) static random-access memory (SRAM) transpose
CIM macro. The proposed CIM macro incorporates a cyclic-
weight-mapping SRAM array (CWM-SRAM), a signed-ﬁxed
mantissa encode (SFME) scheme, a vector-wise pre-alignment
(VWPA) mechanism, and dual-mode bit-parallel MAC circuits
(DMBP-MACs).
The remainder of this article is organized as follows. Sec-
tion II describes the challenges of currently existing transpose
SRAM CIM macros and our motivations. Section III outlines
the overall structure of the proposed transpose SRAM CIM
macro and discusses the CWM-SRAM scheme. Section IV
describes the proposed SFME and VWPA. Section V describes
the DMBP-MAC. Section VI describes the analysis and mea-
sured results of the proposed CIM macro. Section VII gives
this work a ﬁnal conclusion.
II. CHALLENGES AND MOTIVATIONS
A. Separated Data Paths and Redundant MAC Circuits
To support matrix transposition, previous transpose-enabled
CIM macros employ separate data paths and multiply-
accumulate (MAC) circuits for FF and BP. A representative
transpose CIM macro architecture [12] is illustrated in Fig. 2.
In the FF dataﬂow, activations are transmitted along the word
line (WL) direction. After being multiplied with the weights
stored in SRAM cells within local compute units, the resulting
partial sums are accumulated and sent to the FF MAC circuit,
which consists of analog-to-digital converters (ADCs) and dig-
ital accumulators, along the bitline (BL) direction. In contrast,
during the BP dataﬂow, error gradients are input along the BL
direction, and the computed partial sums are accumulated and
routed to the BP MAC circuit along the WL direction.
Fig. 2.
Separated FF and BP data paths and redundant MAC circuits in
previous transpose CIM macros.
The separated data paths eﬀectively prevent interference
between dataﬂows in FF and BP phases. However, this
approach introduces redundancy in the MAC circuits, which
occupy a signiﬁcant portion of the power and area in CIM
macros. In addition, since the local compute units are shared
between FF and BP operations, the two phases cannot be
executed concurrently. As a result, the redundant MAC circuits
lead to substantial power and area overheads, signiﬁcantly
degrading both energy eﬃciency and area eﬃciency in such
transpose CIM macros. Venkataramanaiah et al. [15] propose
a cyclic weight storage and access scheme that enables both
FF and BP to share a single data port. However, directly
applying this approach to CIM architectures faces several
critical challenges. First, the work lacks a concrete circuit-level
design methodology: implementing diagonal-parallel readout
is not feasible on a conventional SRAM array without signif-
icant modiﬁcations to peripheral circuitry. Second, it does not
address how the mapping scheme should adapt to variable-
precision operands, which is a capability essential for uniﬁed
training and inference support in edge AI devices. Finally,
the alignment in [15] is performed on the weight side via
rotation during readout, which introduces redundant alignment
overhead in activation-broadcast CIM architectures, where
shifting activations instead of weights is far more eﬃcient due
to their broadcast nature.
To address these challenges, this work proposes a detailed
CWM-SRAM design that enables reuse of the data paths
in both FF and BP for transpose CIM. As a result, the
MAC circuits can be shared between the two phases, thereby
achieving higher energy and area eﬃciency.
B. Restricted Data Format Supporting
Compared to inference, training is much more sensitive to
reduced computing precision. As shown in Fig. 3(a), studies
indicate that using simple uniform INT8 quantization in train-
ing leads to a signiﬁcant accuracy drop and causes training
to fail after a certain number of iterations. This is because
the INT format cannot adapt to the dynamic and varying
nature of error gradient distributions [16]. Although complex
nonuniform INT quantization schemes may allow successful
This article has been accepted for inclusion in a future issue of this journal. Content is final as presented, with the exception of pagination. 
Authorized licensed use limited to: University of Electronic Science and Tech of China. Downloaded on August 13,2026 at 04:11:57 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

===== PAGE 3 =====
YUAN et al.: 28-nm DIGITAL TRANSPOSE SRAM COMPUTE-IN-MEMORY MACRO
3
Fig. 3. (a) Training accuracy loss with INT/FP format. (b) Structure of pre-
alignment FP CIM macro.
training, they require additional design eﬀorts and hardware
overheads to account for gradient distribution characteristics.
This
issue
has
been
largely
overlooked
in
previous
transpose-enabled CIM macros. Fortunately, FP CIM schemes
have seen signiﬁcant development in recent years [5], [17],
[18], [19], [20]. These FP CIMs perform oﬄine alignment of
weight mantissas and are therefore referred to as pre-alignment
FP CIMs. As shown in Fig. 3(b), a typical pre-alignment FP
CIM ﬁrst performs online activation mantissa alignment using
a maximum exponent detection circuit and a mantissa align-
ment circuit. The aligned activation mantissas, together with
the pre-aligned weight mantissas, then undergo MAC opera-
tions within an INT CIM array. Finally, the INT-format output
is reformatted into FP format through a format conversion
circuit. Although pre-alignment FP CIMs support FP format,
the signiﬁcant accuracy loss caused by mantissa truncation in
coarse-grained pre-alignment [20] renders them unsuitable for
accuracy-sensitive training processes.
These challenges motivate our work to integrate FP CIM
techniques into the transpose CIM macro using SFME, thereby
enabling native support for FP format. Additionally, we
employ VWPA to achieve ﬁne-grained alignment and further
improve computational accuracy.
C. Imbalance Between Memory and Computing
Previous analog-domain transpose CIM macros are suscep-
tible to PVT variations, which compromises their stability and
accuracy during the training process. In recent years, digital-
domain CIM macros have been developed to enable stable and
fully accurate MAC operations [6], [21], [22], [23], [24].
Although digital-domain CIM macros overcome the limita-
tions caused by PVT variations, achieving a balance between
memory density and area eﬃciency remains a key challenge
[5], [6]. Allocating more area to MAC circuits results in higher
area eﬃciency but lower memory density, whereas allocating
more area to SRAM cells leads to higher memory density but
reduced area eﬃciency. Although improving area eﬃciency
can enhance computing throughput, reduced memory density
may result in lower memory capacity and data reusability,
which increases data movement frequency and ultimately
degrades overall system energy eﬃciency.
To achieve a balanced tradeoﬀamong area eﬃciency,
energy eﬃciency, and memory density in the proposed digital-
domain CIM macro, the DWBP-MAC is introduced to reduce
the number of computing cycles and improve throughput
through a bit-parallel CIM architecture. Additionally, area and
energy eﬃciency are further enhanced by incorporating an
approximate computing scheme. To improve memory density,
the number of rows in the SRAM array is increased and
a centrosymmetric layout is implemented to improve area
utilization.
III. CYCLIC-WEIGHT-MAPPING TRANSPOSE CIM MACRO
A. Macro Overall Structure
Fig. 4(a) illustrates the architecture of our proposed dig-
ital transpose FP CIM macro, which comprises four key
components: 1) a read/write control circuit; 2) an activation
rotate-and-align circuit; 3) a bus interface circuit; and 4) two
sets of CWM-SRAM and DMBP-MAC arranged in a upper
and lower block conﬁguration. For the purpose of facili-
tating seamless system integration, the macro is engineered
to be compliant with the standard advanced microcontroller
bus architecture (AMBA). The advanced high-performance
bus (AHB) interface is designed to manage high bandwidth
memory accesses, whereas the advanced peripheral bus (APB)
interface is set up to convey control signals, activation vectors,
and MAC results.
The macro conﬁgurations for INT4/8, FP8, and BF16 for-
mats are depicted in Fig. 4(b). In the INT4 mode, the upper and
lower blocks store two distinct sets of 4-bit weight elements.
Conversely, in the INT8 mode, an 8-bit weight element is
partitioned into 4 most signiﬁcant bits (MSBs) and 4 least
signiﬁcant bits (LSBs), which are then stored in the upper and
lower blocks, respectively. Both the FP8 and BF16 modes are
designed to leverage the data paths used in the INT4 and INT8
modes. In the FP8 mode, a 4-bit aligned mantissa is stored to
represent an FP8 weight. As such, the upper and lower blocks
can accommodate two distinct sets of 4-bit FP8 mantissas. For
the BF16 mode, an 8-bit aligned mantissa is stored after being
partitioned into 4 MSBs and 4 LSBs, similar to the approach
in the INT8 mode.
Fig. 4(c) presents the timing diagram for diﬀerent data
formats. The macro is engineered to process two 64-channel
4-bit MAC operations within a single cycle. Consequently, in
both the INT4 and FP8 modes, the MAC operation can be
completed in just one MAC cycle. In contrast, for the INT8
and BF16 modes, two MAC cycles are necessary to ﬁnish the
computation. During these cycles, the activation is sent into
the macro in a segmented manner: the 4 MSBs are fed in
during the ﬁrst cycle and the 4 LSBs are fed in during the
second cycle.
B. Cyclic-Weight-Mapping SRAM Array
Fig. 5(a) illustrates the architecture of the proposed CWM-
SRAM array. The array, conﬁgured with 64 rows and
256 columns, is partitioned into 64 sub-banks, each comprising
64 rows and 4 columns. Within this architecture, every set
of four adjacent column SRAM cells forms a fundamental
4-bit storage unit for weight representation. Consequently, the
CWM-SRAM array eﬀectively constitutes a 64 × 64 array of
4-bit cells. The row selectors, driven by 5-bit address signals,
This article has been accepted for inclusion in a future issue of this journal. Content is final as presented, with the exception of pagination. 
Authorized licensed use limited to: University of Electronic Science and Tech of China. Downloaded on August 13,2026 at 04:11:57 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

===== PAGE 4 =====
4
IEEE JOURNAL OF SOLID-STATE CIRCUITS
Fig. 4. (a) Overall architecture of the proposed digital transpose FP CIM macro. (b) CIM macro conﬁguration for INT4/8, FP8, and BF16 formats. (c) Timing
diagrams for INT4/8, FP8, and BF16 formats.
are capable of selecting 64 4-bit cells simultaneously. During
normal read/write operations, the column selectors, controlled
by 2-bit address signals, further select 8 out of the 64 4-bit
cells selected by the same row signal to support a standard
32-bit read/write data bus width. During MAC operations, the
row selectors are driven by a 5-bit FF/BP address and a mode
control signal that determines whether the circuit operates in
FF or BP mode. In the FF mode, the row address is similar
to the standard row select signal used in normal read/write
operations, which activates all 4-bit cells within the same row.
In contrast, in BP mode, the BP address is used to select
4-bit cells along a corresponding diagonal direction, enabling
the transpose computation required for gradient propagation.
Notably, the column selectors remain inactive in this scenario.
A 256-bit vector is ultimately delivered to the MAC circuits
in both FF and BP modes, serving as the input for parallel
MAC operations.
To enable the transpose operation, the weight matrix is
stored using a cyclic-weight-mapping scheme, as illustrated
in Fig. 5(b). In this scheme, each row of the matrix is
right-shifted by a number of elements corresponding to its
row index. For instance, the second row is shifted by one
element, and the third row by two elements. In this way,
during FF mode, row vectors of the matrix can be directly
accessed. Meanwhile, in BP mode, the elements along a given
diagonal direction correspond exactly to the column vectors
of the original weight matrix. To maintain alignment with the
right-shifted weight vectors, the activation vector is also right-
shifted within the rotate-and-align circuit. This ensures that
corresponding elements of the activation and weight vectors
are spatially aligned for accurate MAC operations in both FF
and BP modes.
As shown in Fig. 6(a), the four SRAM cells within a
4-bit cell can be activated by the FF or BP row select read
enable signals. The corresponding timing diagram of the 4-bit
cell is presented in Fig. 6(b). Overall, the CWM-SRAM array
follows a standard SRAM read operation: precharging the BLs,
enabling the WLs, which is controlled by the FF or BP row
select read enable signals, disabling the WLs, and then sensing
the ﬁnal data via the sense ampliﬁer. During computation, the
read data are kept to enable repeated use within the compute
cycle, thereby avoiding redundant read operations and mini-
mizing energy overhead. In the actual circuit implementation,
the row select enable signals are synchronized with the system
clock and generated by the row decoder; suﬃcient timing
margin is guaranteed through careful timing analysis across
PVT corners. This scheme incurs a 46.5% area overhead for
the SRAM array, primarily due to the additional area required
for the control gates and the increased spacing margins needed
for metal routing. The diagonal interconnections required in
This article has been accepted for inclusion in a future issue of this journal. Content is final as presented, with the exception of pagination. 
Authorized licensed use limited to: University of Electronic Science and Tech of China. Downloaded on August 13,2026 at 04:11:57 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

===== PAGE 5 =====
YUAN et al.: 28-nm DIGITAL TRANSPOSE SRAM COMPUTE-IN-MEMORY MACRO
5
Fig. 5.
(a) Structure of CWM-SRAM. (b) Row and column vectors stored
with cyclic weight mapping.
Fig. 6. (a) Single 4-bit cell with write signals and circuits ignored. (b) Timing
diagram of the 4-bit cell.
BP mode are implemented using two dedicated metal layers.
Speciﬁcally, the second and third metal layer (M2 and M3)
is utilized to connect 4-bit cells within the same diagonal,
while the fourth metal layer (M4) is employed to interconnect
the corresponding diagonals. To avoid routing congestion with
M4, the FF signals are routed in the ﬁfth metal layer (M5).
An example layout of a 4 × 4 array composed of 4-bit cells
is illustrated in Fig. 7.
Fig. 7. Example layout of a 4 × 4 4-bit cells array.
Fig. 8.
(a) SFME for BF16 format. (b) SFME for FP8 E4M3 and E5M2
format.
IV. MANTISSA ENCODE AND PRE-ALIGNMENT
A. Signed Fixed-Point Mantissa Encode
Most of the prior FP CIM works primarily support the BF16
format [5], [10], [19], [25] and FP16 format [20], [26]. The
FP8 format has been proposed as a novel FP representation to
enable more energy-eﬃcient training and inference [27], and
it is already being adopted in state-of-the-art large language
model training [28]. The FP8 format can be represented in
two distinct conﬁgurations: 5-bit exponent with 2-bit mantissa
(E5M2) and 4-bit exponent with 3-bit mantissa (E4M3). The
E5M2 format oﬀers a larger dynamic range than E4M3 at the
expense of lower precision, whereas E4M3 provides higher
precision than E5M2 but with a reduced dynamic range.
To support both the high-precision BF16 format and the
energy-eﬃcient FP8 format, as well as commonly used INT
quantization formats such as INT4 and INT8, this work
This article has been accepted for inclusion in a future issue of this journal. Content is final as presented, with the exception of pagination. 
Authorized licensed use limited to: University of Electronic Science and Tech of China. Downloaded on August 13,2026 at 04:11:57 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

===== PAGE 6 =====
6
IEEE JOURNAL OF SOLID-STATE CIRCUITS
Fig. 9.
(a) Structure of the proposed quad-mode multiplier. (b) PEs of the
proposed quad-mode multiplier.
proposes the SFME. As illustrated in Fig. 8(a), the SFME
ﬁrst identiﬁes the maximum exponent Emax by comparing all
exponents of the FP numbers to be aligned. The diﬀerences
between each exponent and the maximum exponent are then
computed as shift indexes S Ii = Emax −Ei. Subsequently, the
mantissas along with the hidden bits of all FP numbers are
right-shifted according to their respective shift indexes and
converted into two’s complement format based on their sign
bits. Finally, the sign bit and the two’s complement mantissa
are combined to form a signed ﬁxed-point number, with the
decimal point placed behind the sign bit. Following the SFME
processing, the original BF16 numbers are transformed into
8-bit aligned mantissas Ma and a shared 8-bit exponent Es. As
shown in Fig. 8(b), the SFME also supports format conversion
for both FP8 E5M2 and E4M3 representations. Speciﬁcally,
FP8 E5M2 numbers are converted into 4-bit aligned mantissas
and a shared 4-bit exponent, whereas FP8 E4M3 numbers
are transformed into 4-bit aligned mantissas and a shared
5-bit exponent. The SFME can be represented as the following
formula:
FP = (−1)S × 2E−Bias × (1.M)
= 2Emax−Bias ×

(−1)S × (0.Mn)

= 2Es × Ma.
(1)
To enable a uniﬁed hardware implementation of the SFME
across diﬀerent formats, a 4-bit quad-mode multiplier is pro-
posed. This design is based on the following formula, which
allows 8-bit multiplication to be decomposed into multiple
4-bit operations:
 W[7:4] ≪4 + W[3:0]

×
 I[7:4] ≪4 + I[3:0]

=
 W[7:4] × I[7:4]

≪8 +
 W[3:0] × I[7:4]

≪4
+
 W[7:4] × I[3:0]

≪4 +
 W[3:0] × I[3:0]

.
(2)
In the formula, for signed 8-bit multiplication, the four
4-bit partial products are categorized into four distinct
cases: signed–signed, unsigned–signed, signed–unsigned, and
unsigned–unsigned multiplication. The architecture of the pro-
posed quad-mode multiplier is illustrated in Fig. 9(a). This
design is inspired by the Baugh–Wooley multiplier architecture
[29] and has been further modiﬁed to support all four multipli-
cation scenarios. The four types of processing elements (PEs)
that constitute the multiplier are shown in Fig. 9(b).
Fig. 10. Proposed VWPA scheme.
Fig. 11. Accurate/approximate DM-MUL architecture.
B. Vector-Wise Pre-Alignment
To achieve lower accuracy loss, this work proposes the
VWPA scheme. As illustrated in Fig. 10, the overall architec-
ture is inspired by previous pre-alignment FP CIM designs.
However, to enable ﬁne-grained pre-alignment and thereby
further reduce accuracy degradation, we perform the pre-
alignment of FP weights vector-wise rather than layer-wise,
as used in prior FP CIM implementations [5]. To support this
design, we incorporate 64 VWPA weight exponent register
ﬁles. The pre-aligned shared exponents of the weights are
stored in these register ﬁles and are combined with the shared
exponents of the input FP activations and the post-MAC
alignment regular exponent values. The accuracy improvement
achieved by VWPA will be analyzed in detail in Section IV-A.
V. DUAL-MODE BIT-PARALLEL MAC CIRCUITS
A. DM-ADD and Multiplier
Approximate computing is a promising approach for
achieving high energy eﬃciency by trading oﬀa certain
degree of computational accuracy [31], [32] and has been
widely adopted in prior CIM macros [7], [8]. To enable
a ﬂexible tradeoﬀbetween accuracy and energy eﬃciency
across diﬀerent application scenarios, this work proposes the
DMBP-MAC scheme. The main components of the proposed
DMBP-MAC are illustrated in Figs. 11 and 12, which fea-
ture the dual-mode multiplier (DM-MUL) and dual-mode
This article has been accepted for inclusion in a future issue of this journal. Content is final as presented, with the exception of pagination. 
Authorized licensed use limited to: University of Electronic Science and Tech of China. Downloaded on August 13,2026 at 04:11:57 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

===== PAGE 7 =====
YUAN et al.: 28-nm DIGITAL TRANSPOSE SRAM COMPUTE-IN-MEMORY MACRO
7
Fig. 12. Accurate/approximate DM-ADD architecture.
adder (DM-ADD), respectively. The DM-MUL further mod-
iﬁed previously mentioned quad-mode multiplier based on a
broken-array multiplier architecture that discards the lower six
partial products, while the DM-ADD is implemented using a
lower part or adder (LOA), in which the lower stage full adders
are replaced with OR gates [33].
To evaluate the impact of the approximate hardware on
computing accuracy, 50 000 random input samples are tested.
As shown in Fig. 13(a), the measured mean relative error
distance (MRED) is 5.3%, which can be seen as a moderate
error range [32]. To further analyze the characteristics of
the approximation error, the error distribution is plotted in
Fig. 13(b), which reveals a Gaussian distribution with a mean
close to zero, indicating that the approximation introduces
minimal systematic bias.
The performance improvements achieved by approximate
computing are also evaluated. Taking the accurate mode as the
baseline, under a supply voltage of 0.9 V and with INT4 input
and weight operands, the approximate mode demonstrates a
12% reduction in latency and a 45% reduction in power
consumption under identical activation and weight settings.
The DM-MUL incurs a 3.6% area overhead over the single-
mode baseline, while the DM-ADD requires 17.9% additional
area. Overall, the DMBP-MAC circuit contributes only 3.1%
additional area to the CIM macro, which is a negligible penalty
compared to energy eﬃciency improvement.
B. Centrosymmetric CIM Layout
As shown in Fig. 14, a centrosymmetric layout is proposed
to tightly integrate the DMBP-MAC with the CWM-SRAM
sub-banks. The entire layout is organized into ﬁve hierarchical
levels. The ﬁrst-level CIM block consists of two CWM-SRAM
sub-banks, two DM-MULs, and one 8-bit DM-ADD. Two
level-1 CIM blocks are symmetrically arranged to form a
level-2 CIM block. The CIM blocks from level 3 to level 5 are
constructed in the same manner, following this hierarchical and
symmetric integration strategy. During computation, all sub-
banks are simultaneously activated to deliver the weight vector
to the DMBP-MAC. In contrast, during a standard SRAM read
operation, only the selected sub-banks are activated, and their
Fig. 13.
(a) MRED of approximate mode. (b) Distribution of approximate
error.
Fig. 14. Centrosymmetric layout for DMBP-MAC and CWM-SRAM.
outputs are gathered by a central readout multiplexer within
the CIM macro.
Compared to previous digital CIM layout designs [22],
[24], where adders are placed and routed parallel to the read-
out direction of the SRAM sub-banks, this work adopts a
vertical layout and routing strategy. This choice is based on
the observation that the proposed digital CIM employs a
64-row number to enlarge memory density, signiﬁcantly
deeper than prior works that typically use only one or
two rows. A parallel layout and routing approach would
substantially increase routing length and lead to routing con-
gestion. This is particularly problematic given that metal layers
M3–M5 are already occupied by control signals for FF and
BP in the CWM-SRAM sub-banks.
VI. ANALYSIS AND MEASUREMENT RESULTS
A. Analysis of the Proposed CIM Macro
As illustrated in Fig. 15, to evaluate the tradeoﬀbetween
accuracy and energy eﬃciency across diﬀerent numerical
data formats, both the top-1 accuracy degradation on the
CIFAR-100 dataset using the VGG-19 model and the average
energy eﬃciency under a 0.5-V supply voltage are analyzed
for INT4, INT8, FP8 (E4M3), and BF16, considering both
accurate and approximate computation modes. Compared to
commonly adopted formats such as INT8 and BF16 in prior
works, FP8 achieves nearly three times higher energy eﬃ-
ciency with only a marginal decrease in accuracy. Although
INT4 demonstrates even greater energy eﬃciency, its signif-
icant accuracy degradation limits its practical applicability.
This article has been accepted for inclusion in a future issue of this journal. Content is final as presented, with the exception of pagination. 
Authorized licensed use limited to: University of Electronic Science and Tech of China. Downloaded on August 13,2026 at 04:11:57 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

===== PAGE 8 =====
8
IEEE JOURNAL OF SOLID-STATE CIRCUITS
Fig. 15. Comparison of accuracy and energy eﬃciency for diﬀerent formats.
Fig. 16.
Comparison of coarse-grained pre-alignment and ﬁne-grained
pre-alignment.
Fig. 17. Comparison of FoM with previous works.
Therefore, FP8 strikes a more favorable balance between accu-
racy and energy eﬃciency, making it a promising candidate for
adoption in future energy-eﬃcient hardware architectures.
To justify the eﬀectiveness of VWPA, 100 dot-product
results from randomly generated matrix-vector multiplication
operations were simulated and sampled using both coarse-
grained pre-alignment and VWPA ﬁne-grained pre-alignment.
The resulting relative errors were computed with respect
to a software baseline that does not employ any alignment
techniques, as illustrated in Fig. 16. The coarse-grained pre-
alignment yields an average relative error of 1.84%, whereas
the ﬁne-grained pre-alignment reduces the average error to
only 0.25%. Furthermore, the maximum relative error under
coarse-grained pre-alignment can approach nearly 10%, while
the ﬁne-grained approach consistently maintains relative errors
below 2%.
To comprehensively evaluate the advantages of the pro-
posed CIM macro, we benchmarked this work against three
prior studies using a ﬁgure of merit (FoM), deﬁned as the
product of input precision, weight precision, accuracy ratio,
Fig. 18. Training loss curve with the proposed methods.
and energy eﬃciency. In our calculation, BF16 is treated as
16-bit precision, and FP8 as 8-bit precision. The accuracy
ratio is deﬁned as the ratio of the actual output accuracy
to the ideal output accuracy. All works are evaluated based
on their maximum average energy eﬃciency and accuracy
achieved on the CIFAR-100 dataset. As shown in Fig. 17,
our design achieves a signiﬁcantly higher FoM compared to
previous works. Notably, in FP8 mode, our FoM ranges from
1.92 to 25.1 times higher than that of prior works. To validate
training accuracy and stability with the proposed methods, we
implemented an end-to-end training framework for the pro-
posed CIM macro. To realize training with the proposed CIM
macro, we ﬁrst initialize it with random weights and operate in
FF mode. After each FF operation, the output activations are
read out to the host processor for loss calculation and gradient
computation. The CIM macro is then switched to BP mode,
and the gradients are sent back to update the weights. This
FF–BP cycle is repeated until training converges. Evaluated on
ViT-S trained on ImageNet, the BF16 mode exhibits a nearly
identical loss curve to the FP32 baseline, while the FP8 mode
shows greater accuracy degradation but still achieves training
convergence, as shown in Fig. 18.
Table I presents a comparative analysis between the pro-
posed CIM macro and prior works. Compared to prior
non-CIM digital accelerators—which relied on two-way read-
able register ﬁles to perform transposition for backward data
paths [30], CIM designs eliminate the need for data movement
by coupling MAC circuits directly with memory, enabling
computation at the storage location. Compared to previous
transpose CIM implementations, this work achieves notable
improvements in both energy eﬃciency and area eﬃciency.
These enhancements are primarily attributed to the reuse
of the CWM-SRAM MAC circuits across the forward and
backward propagation phases. By incorporating bit-parallel
and approximate arithmetic techniques in the DMBP-MAC,
the proposed design achieves shorter access times, as well
as higher energy and area eﬃciencies, compared to earlier
non-transpose CIM implementations. Furthermore, with the
proposed VWPA technique, the macro demonstrates lower
accuracy loss in accurate mode when compared to layer-
wise pre-aligned FP CIM approaches. Thanks to the increased
number of rows in the SRAM sub-banks, the memory density
of the proposed CIM macro is also improved over prior works.
This article has been accepted for inclusion in a future issue of this journal. Content is final as presented, with the exception of pagination. 
Authorized licensed use limited to: University of Electronic Science and Tech of China. Downloaded on August 13,2026 at 04:11:57 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

===== PAGE 9 =====
YUAN et al.: 28-nm DIGITAL TRANSPOSE SRAM COMPUTE-IN-MEMORY MACRO
9
TABLE I
PERFORMANCE COMPARISON WITH PRIOR WORKS
TABLE II
FF AND BP COMPARISON
Table II presents energy eﬃciency comparison between FF
and BP operations under 0.9 V, 50% sparsity, and 50% toggle
rate condition. A key distinction is that, to ensure training
stability, only FP8/BF16 precisions and the accurate mode are
employed for BP. The average EF of BP exhibits a slight
degradation compared to FF, which can be attributed to the
longer routing overhead in the CWM-SRAM. To evaluate the
typical energy eﬃciency of the proposed CIM macro under
realistic model sparsity and toggle rate conditions, we perform
both inference and training of a ViT-S model on ImageNet.
We use an approximate FP8 conﬁguration for inference and a
high-precision BF16 conﬁguration for training. The measured
energy eﬃciency is 65.2 TFLOPS/W for inference and 10.5
TFLOPS/W for training. We focus exclusively on the energy
eﬃciency of the CIM macro itself. Therefore, energy con-
sumption associated with oﬀ-chip data movement and on-chip
control circuits is excluded.
B. Analysis of System-Level Applications
Most prior CIM works have focused exclusively on macro-
level performance optimization, while critical system-level
integration challenges have remained overlooked for years. We
mainly focus on two key challenges. First is the scalability
bottleneck, while CIM macros demonstrate high eﬃciency
for small-scale matrix multiplication, our analysis reveals
fundamental physical barriers to monolithic scaling, as array
size increases, parasitic capacitance in global BLs and lim-
ited driver strength in peripheral circuits cause 33% energy
eﬃciency degradation penalty when our CIM macro scaled to
64 kB. Thus, rather than pursuing impractical single-macro
scaling, we suggest a modular expansion strategy by treating
each CIM macro as a reconﬁgurable PE.
Second is the software-to-hardware mapping gap. Develop-
ing a full software stack for CIM from scratch is prohibitively
costly and time-consuming. To address this challenge, we
leverage the open-source RISC-V software ecosystem to
rapidly prototype the essential operator library required for our
evaluation. This integration signiﬁcantly reduces development
time and engineering eﬀort for execution of NN workloads on
our CIM hardware. We hope that our work can bring insight
for more designs that bridge the gap between circuit-level
innovation and system-level deployment.
C. Measurement Results
Fig.
19
presents
the
measured
energy
eﬃciency
of
FP8
(E4M3)
in
accurate
and
approximate
computation
modes. All measurements are conducted under a 50%
weight sparsity condition, with input toggle rates ranging
from 10% to 90%. At a 50% toggle rate, the accurate
mode achieves an energy eﬃciency of 51.1 TFLOPS/W
This article has been accepted for inclusion in a future issue of this journal. Content is final as presented, with the exception of pagination. 
Authorized licensed use limited to: University of Electronic Science and Tech of China. Downloaded on August 13,2026 at 04:11:57 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

===== PAGE 10 =====
10
IEEE JOURNAL OF SOLID-STATE CIRCUITS
Fig. 19. Energy eﬃciency scaling curves of FP8 accurate and approximate
modes.
Fig. 20. Power breakdown and area breakdown.
at
0.9-V
supply
voltage
and
145.8
TFLOPS/W
at
0.55 V. In contrast, the approximate mode demonstrates
improved energy eﬃciency, reaching 68.8 TFLOPS/W at
0.9 V and 192.3 TFLOPS/W at 0.55 V. This corresponds
to an approximate 33% improvement in energy eﬃciency
compared to the accurate mode. Under the 10% toggle
rate condition, which represents peak energy eﬃciency, the
accurate mode achieves 106.4 TFLOPS/W at 0.9 V and
303.4 TFLOPS/W at 0.55 V. The approximate mode further
enhances the performance, achieving 143.0 TFLOPS/W at
0.9 V and 400.0 TFLOPS/W at 0.55 V.
Fig. 20 presents the measured power and area breakdown
of the proposed CIM macro under a 0.9-V supply voltage,
with 50% weight sparsity and 50% input toggle rate in INT4
accurate mode. In terms of power distribution, the multipliers
account for the largest share, contributing 45.3% of the total
power consumption. The adder tree consumes only 4.0%,
while the SRAM arrays and control circuits account for 23.4%
and 13.7%, respectively. The rotation and alignment circuits
contribute a relatively minor portion, consuming 1.7% of the
total power. The AHB and APB interfaces consume 2.9% and
9.1%, respectively. Regarding the area breakdown, the SRAM
arrays and control circuits are the dominant components,
occupying 40.3% and 22.7% of the total area, respectively.
The multipliers and adder trees take up 20.9% and 12.9%,
while the rotate and alignment circuits occupy only 1.9% of
the area. The AHB and APB interfaces occupy 0.3% and 1.0%
of the total area, respectively. Unlike bit-serial CIM macros,
Fig. 21. Shmoo plots of FP8 accurate and approximate modes.
Fig. 22. Die photograph of the proposed CIM macro.
where the adder tree typically forms the power bottleneck,
the power bottleneck in the bit-parallel CIM macro stems
from the large number of high-power-consuming multipliers.
This characteristic highlights the need for future optimization
eﬀorts to focus on multiplier energy eﬃciency. Furthermore,
although a signiﬁcant portion of the chip area is allocated
to SRAM, the macro achieves favorable area eﬃciency due
to the throughput improvements enabled by the bit-parallel
architecture.
Fig. 21 presents the measured shmoo plots of the proposed
CIM macro operating in FP8-IN, FP8-W, BF16-OUT accurate,
and approximate modes. The shortest access times are 2.5 ns at
VDD = 0.9 V in the accurate mode and 2.7 ns at VDD = 0.9 V
in the approximate mode. Fig. 22 shows a die microphotograph
of the fabricated chip, and Fig. 23 illustrates the measurement
setup. The chip, implemented in a 28-nm process, occupies an
area of 1.8 × 1.8 mm and integrates the proposed CIM macro
along with a RISC-V SoC to support system-level application
development. The measurement system consists of a DC power
supply, an oscilloscope, and a test board connected to a PC
via a JTAG debugger.
Table III summarizes the key characteristics of the proposed
CIM macro. The macro features a capacity of 32 kB and
operates across a supply voltage range of 0.55–0.9 V, with a
total area of 0.043 mm2. We evaluated the performance of the
CIM macro in terms of access time, average and peak energy
This article has been accepted for inclusion in a future issue of this journal. Content is final as presented, with the exception of pagination. 
Authorized licensed use limited to: University of Electronic Science and Tech of China. Downloaded on August 13,2026 at 04:11:57 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

===== PAGE 11 =====
YUAN et al.: 28-nm DIGITAL TRANSPOSE SRAM COMPUTE-IN-MEMORY MACRO
11
Fig. 23. Measurement system of the proposed CIM macro.
TABLE III
CHIP SUMMARY
eﬃciency, and accuracy loss using three benchmark models:
ResNet-18 on CIFAR-10, VGG-19 on CIFAR-100, and ViT-S
on ImageNet. During evaluation, the fully connected layers,
convolution layers, and matrix multiplications of attention
layers are performed with the proposed CIM macro. The
accuracy loss exhibits a clear trend. Although the accuracy
gap between the accurate and approximate modes widens with
larger datasets and more complex models, the degradation
remains acceptable, staying below 1% in most of the cases.
VII. CONCLUSION
To conclude, this work presents a digital transpose SRAM
CIM macro supporting INT4/8, FP8, and BF16 formats.
To enable energy-eﬃcient and privacy-protected edge training,
a transpose-supported SRAM CIM macro is essential. How-
ever, previous transpose SRAM CIM macros are restricted
by redundant MAC circuits, limited format support, and
PVT variations. To solve these challenges, this work fea-
tures a CWM-SRAM to reuse MAC circuits for FF and BP
phases and therefore improves energy and area eﬃciency;
SFME to support varied INT/FP formats and VWPA to
further improve accuracy; Finally, DMBP-MAC is introduced
to trade oﬀbetween accuracy and extremely high energy
and area eﬃciency. The fabricated 28-nm 32-kB transpose
SRAM CIM macro achieved average energy eﬃciency of
70.2–285.4 TOPS/W in INT4, 17.5–71.4 TOPS/W in INT8,
51.1–192.3 TFLOPS/W in FP8, and 12.8–48 TFLOPS/W in
BF16.
REFERENCES
[1]
A. Gholami, Z. Yao, S. Kim, C. Hooper, M. W. Mahoney, and
K. Keutzer, “AI and memory wall,” IEEE Micro, vol. 44, no. 3,
pp. 33–39, May 2024.
[2]
M. Ali, S. Roy, U. Saxena, T. Sharma, A. Raghunathan, and K. Roy,
“Compute-in-memory technologies and architectures for deep learning
workloads,” IEEE Trans. Very Large Scale Integr. (VLSI) Syst., vol. 30,
no. 11, pp. 1615–1630, Nov. 2022.
[3]
T. Sharma, M. Ali, I. Chakraborty, and K. Roy, “WWW: What, when,
where to compute-in-memory,” 2025, arXiv:2312.15896.
[4]
S. Yu, H. Jiang, S. Huang, X. Peng, and A. Lu, “Compute-in-memory
chips for deep learning: Recent trends and prospects,” IEEE Circuits
Syst. Mag., vol. 21, no. 3, pp. 31–56, 3rd Quart., 2021.
[5]
A. Guo et al., “A 28nm 64-kb 31.6-TFLOPS/W digital-domain ﬂoating-
point-computing-unit and double-bit 6T-SRAM computing-in-memory
macro for ﬂoating-point CNNs,” in IEEE Int. Solid-State Circuits Conf.
(ISSCC) Dig. Tech. Papers, Feb. 2023, pp. 128–130.
[6]
H. Fujiwara et al., “A 3nm, 32.5TOPS/W, 55.0TOPS/mm2
and
3.78Mb/mm2 fully-digital compute-in-memory macro supporting INT12
× INT12 with a parallel-MAC architecture and foundry 6T-SRAM bit
cell,” in IEEE Int. Solid-State Circuits Conf. (ISSCC) Dig. Tech. Papers,
Feb. 2024, pp. 572–574.
[7]
Y. He et al., “A 28nm 38-to-102-TOPS/W 8b multiply-less approximate
digital SRAM compute-in-memory macro for neural-network inference,”
in Proc. IEEE Int. Solid- State Circuits Conf. (ISSCC), Feb. 2023,
pp. 130–132.
[8]
D. Wang, C.-T. Lin, G. K. Chen, P. Knag, R. K. Krishnamurthy, and
M. Seok, “DIMC: 2219TOPS/W 2569F2/b digital in-memory computing
macro in 28nm based on approximate arithmetic hardware,” in IEEE Int.
Solid-State Circuits Conf. (ISSCC) Dig. Tech. Papers, vol. 65, Feb. 2022,
pp. 266–268.
[9]
Y. Wang et al., “A 28 nm 83.23TFLOPS/W POSIT-based compute-in-
memory macro for high-accuracy AI applications,” in IEEE Int. Solid-
State Circuits Conf. (ISSCC) Dig. Tech. Papers, Feb. 2024, pp. 566–568.
[10] W.-S. Khwa et al., “A 16nm 96Kb integer/ﬂoating-point dual-mode-
gain-cell-computing-in-memory macro achieving 73.3–163.3TOPS/W
and 33.2–91.2TFLOPS/W for AI-edge devices,” in IEEE Int. Solid-State
Circuits Conf. (ISSCC) Dig. Tech. Papers, Feb. 2024, pp. 568–570.
[11] S. Zhu, T. Voigt, F. Rahimian, and J. Ko, “On-device training: A ﬁrst
overview on existing systems,” ACM Trans. Sensor Netw., vol. 20, no. 6,
pp. 1–39, Oct. 2024.
[12] J.-W. Su et al., “Two-way transpose multibit 6T SRAM computing-in-
memory macro for inference-training AI edge chips,” IEEE J. Solid-State
Circuits, vol. 57, no. 2, pp. 609–624, Feb. 2022.
[13] J. Song, Y. Wang, X. Tang, R. Wang, and R. Huang, “A 16Kb transpose
6T SRAM in-memory-computing macro based on robust charge-domain
computing,” in Proc. IEEE Asian Solid-State Circuits Conf. (A-SSCC),
Nov. 2021, pp. 1–3.
[14] H. Jiang, X. Peng, S. Huang, and S. Yu, “CIMAT: A compute-in-memory
architecture for on-chip training based on transpose SRAM arrays,”
IEEE Trans. Comput., vol. 69, no. 7, pp. 944–954, Jul. 2020.
[15] S. K. Venkataramanaiah, S. Yin, Y. Cao, and J.-S. Seo, “Deep neural
network training accelerator designs in ASIC and FPGA,” in Proc. Int.
SoC Design Conf. (ISOCC), Oct. 2020, pp. 21–22.
This article has been accepted for inclusion in a future issue of this journal. Content is final as presented, with the exception of pagination. 
Authorized licensed use limited to: University of Electronic Science and Tech of China. Downloaded on August 13,2026 at 04:11:57 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

===== PAGE 12 =====
12
IEEE JOURNAL OF SOLID-STATE CIRCUITS
[16] S. Wang and Y. Kang, “Gradient distribution-aware INT8 training for
neural networks,” Neurocomputing, vol. 541, Jul. 2023, Art. no. 126269.
[17] H. Diao et al., “A 28nm 128TFLOPS/W computing-in-memory engine
supporting one-shot ﬂoating-point NN inference and on-device ﬁne-
tuning for edge AI,” in Proc. IEEE Custom Integr. Circuits Conf. (CICC),
Apr. 2024, pp. 1–2.
[18] A. Guo et al., “ShareFloat CIM: A compute-in-memory architecture
with ﬂoating-point multiply-and-accumulate operations,” in Proc. IEEE
Int. Symp. Circuits Syst. (ISCAS), Austin, TX, USA, May 2022,
pp. 2276–2280.
[19] F. Tu et al., “A 28 nm 29.2TFLOPS/W BF16 and 36.5TOPS/W INT8
reconﬁgurable digital CIM processor with uniﬁed FP/INT pipeline
and bitwise in-memory booth multiplication for cloud deep learning
acceleration,” in IEEE Int. Solid-State Circuits Conf. (ISSCC) Dig. Tech.
Papers, vol. 65, Feb. 2022, pp. 1–3.
[20] T.-H. Wen et al., “A 22nm 16Mb ﬂoating-point ReRAM compute-in-
memory macro with 31.2TFLOPS/W for AI edge devices,” in IEEE
Int. Solid-State Circuits Conf. (ISSCC) Dig. Tech. Papers, Feb. 2024,
pp. 580–582.
[21] Y.-D. Chih et al., “An 89TOPS/W and 16.3TOPS/mm2 all-digital
SRAM-based full-precision compute-in memory macro in 22nm for
machine-learning edge applications,” in IEEE Int. Solid-State Circuits
Conf. (ISSCC) Dig. Tech. Papers, vol. 64, Feb. 2021, pp. 252–254.
[22] H. Fujiwara et al., “A 5-nm 254-TOPS/W 221-TOPS/mm2 fully-digital
computing-in-memory macro supporting wide-range dynamic-voltage-
frequency scaling and simultaneous MAC and write operations,” in
Proc. IEEE Int. Solid- State Circuits Conf. (ISSCC), vol. 65, Feb. 2022,
pp. 1–3.
[23] H. Mori et al., “A 4nm 6163-TOPS/W/b 4790 −TOPS/mm2/b SRAM
based digital-computing-in-memory macro supporting bit-width ﬂexibil-
ity and simultaneous MAC and weight update,” in IEEE Int. Solid-State
Circuits Conf. (ISSCC) Dig. Tech. Papers, Feb. 2023, pp. 132–134.
[24] C.-F. Lee et al., “A 12nm 121-TOPS/W 41.6-TOPS/mm2 all digital full
precision SRAM-based compute-in-memory with conﬁgurable bit-width
for AI edge applications,” in Proc. IEEE Symp. VLSI Technol. Circuits
(VLSI Technol. Circuits), Jun. 2022, pp. 24–25.
[25] P.-C. Wu et al., “A 22nm 832Kb hybrid-domain ﬂoating-point SRAM in-
memory-compute macro with 16.2–70.2TFLOPS/W for high-accuracy
AI-edge devices,” in IEEE Int. Solid-State Circuits Conf. (ISSCC) Dig.
Tech. Papers, Feb. 2023, pp. 126–128.
[26] S. Yan et al., “A 28-nm ﬂoating-point computing-in-memory processor
using intensive-CIM sparse-digital architecture,” IEEE J. Solid-State
Circuits, vol. 59, no. 8, pp. 2630–2643, Aug. 2024.
[27] P. Micikevicius et al., “FP8 formats for deep learning,” 2022,
arXiv:2209.05433.
[28] A. Hern´andez-Cano, D. Garbaya, I. Schlag, and M. Jaggi, “Towards
fully FP8 GEMM LLM training at scale,” 2025, arXiv:2505.20524.
[29] H. El-Razouk and Z. Abid, “Area and power eﬃcient array and tree
multipliers,” in Proc. Can. Conf. Electr. Comput. Eng., vol. 2, 2006,
pp. 713–716.
[30] J. Heo et al., “23.10 HuMoniX: A 57.3fps 12.8TFLOPS/W text-to-
motion processor with inter-iteration output sparsity and inter-frame joint
similarity,” in IEEE Int. Solid-State Circuits Conf. (ISSCC) Dig. Tech.
Papers, Feb. 2025, pp. 424–426.
[31] Q. Xu, T. Mytkowicz, and N. S. Kim, “Approximate computing: A
survey,” IEEE Design Test, vol. 33, no. 1, pp. 8–22, Feb. 2016.
[32] V. Leon et al., “Approximate computing survey, part I: Terminology and
software & hardware approximation techniques,” ACM Comput. Surveys,
vol. 57, no. 7, pp. 1–36, Mar. 2025.
[33] H. R. Mahdiani, A. Ahmadi, S. M. Fakhraie, and C. Lucas, “Bio-inspired
imprecise computational blocks for eﬃcient VLSI implementation of
soft-computing applications,” IEEE Trans. Circuits Syst. I, Reg. Papers,
vol. 57, no. 4, pp. 850–862, Apr. 2010.
Yiyang Yuan received the B.S. degree in electronic
and information engineering from Beijing Institute
of Technology, Beijing, China, in 2021. He is
currently
pursuing
the
Ph.D.
degree
with
the
Institute of Microelectronics of Chinese Academy
of Sciences, Beijing.
His
research
interests
include
compute-in-
memory, resistive random access memory, artiﬁcial
intelligence, and brain–machine interface.
Bingxin Zhang received the B.S. degree in elec-
tronic science and technology from Beijing Uni-
versity of Chemical Technology, Beijing, China, in
2023. He is currently pursuing the M.S. degree
in electronic information with the Institute of
Microelectronics of Chinese Academy of Sciences,
Beijing.
His current research interests include SRAM-
based high-eﬃciency neural network accelerators,
SRAM-based computing-in-memory macro design,
and computing-in-memory architectures.
Yiming Yang received the B.S. degree in microelec-
tronics from Beijing Institute of Technology, Beijing,
China, in 2020, where he is currently pursuing the
Ph.D. degree.
His research interests include compute-in-memory
and RF circuits design.
Yishan Luo received the B.E. degree in electronic
science and technology from Beijing Institute of
Technology, Beijing, China, in 2024. He is currently
pursuing the Ph.D. degree with the Institute of
Microelectronics of Chinese Academy of Sciences,
Beijing.
His
current
research
interests
include
SRAM–RRAM
hybrid
in-memory
computing
accelerators, in-memory computing simulators, and
compilers for in-memory computing.
Qirui Chen received the B.S. degree in electronics
information engineering from Beijing Institute of
Technology, Beijing, China, in 2023, where he is
currently pursuing the M.S. degree.
His research interests include energy-eﬃcient
architecture for machine learning algorithms and
compute-in-memory system design.
Haitao
Wang
received the B.S. degree from
Anhui University of Technology and the M.S.
degree from Chongqing University of Posts and
Telecommunications.
He is currently at Chongqing Institute of Micro-
electronics and Microsystems, Beijing Institute of
Technology, Chongqing, China. His research inter-
ests focus on pattern recognition and computer
vision.
This article has been accepted for inclusion in a future issue of this journal. Content is final as presented, with the exception of pagination. 
Authorized licensed use limited to: University of Electronic Science and Tech of China. Downloaded on August 13,2026 at 04:11:57 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

===== PAGE 13 =====
YUAN et al.: 28-nm DIGITAL TRANSPOSE SRAM COMPUTE-IN-MEMORY MACRO
13
Qihao Liu received the B.S. and M.S. degrees from
Yangtze University, Jingzhou, China, in 2009 and
2013, respectively.
He was with a Joint-Training Program, Institute of
Microelectronics of Chinese Academy of Sciences
(IMECAS), Beijing, China, from 2011 to 2013. In
2013, he joined Sino-Chip Semiconductors, Jinan,
China, as an SOC Architect. His research interests
mainly include storage and security technology, such
as advanced non-volatile memory and encryption
applications.
Zhiming
Chen
received the B.Eng. degree in
electronic science and technology from Tsinghua
University, Beijing, China, in 2007, and the Ph.D.
degree in electrical and computer engineering from
the University of California, Irvine, Irvine, CA,
USA, in 2012.
In Spring 2012, he joined Beijing Institute of
Technology, Beijing, as a Faculty Member, where
he is currently a Professor with the School of
Integrated Circuits and Electronics. His research
interests include analog, digital, RF and millimeter-
wave integrated circuits design, advanced packaging, and 3-D integrated
circuits.
Hao Wu received the B.S. degree in integrated
circuits
and
integrated
systems
from
Xidian
University, Xi’an, China. He is currently pursuing
the Ph.D. degree with the Key Laboratory of
Microelectronics Device and Integrated Technology,
Institute of Microelectronics of Chinese Academy
of Sciences, Beijing, China.
His
research
interests
are
SRAM-based
in-memory
computing
processor
design
and
algorithm–architecture co-design.
Jinshan Yue (Member, IEEE) received the B.S. and
Ph.D. degrees from the Department of Electronic
Engineering, Tsinghua University, Beijing, China, in
2016 and 2021, respectively.
From 2021 to 2024, he was a Post-Doctoral
Researcher at the Institute of Microelectronics of
Chinese Academy of Sciences (IMECAS), Beijing.
He is currently an Associate Researcher with IME-
CAS. His current research interests include energy-
eﬃcient neural network processors, non-volatile
memory, and computing-in-memory systems.
Dr. Yue was a TPC Member of IEEE A-SSCC and ICCAD.
Shidong Lv received the B.Eng. and M.E. degrees
from Beijing Institute of Technology (BIT), Beijing,
China, in 2004 and 2006, respectively, where he is
currently pursuing the Ph.D. degree with the School
of Integrated Circuits and Electronics.
His research interests include RF and signal
processing.
Xinghua Wang received the B.Eng. and Ph.D.
degrees from Beijing Institute of Technology (BIT),
Beijing, China, in 2004 and 2010, respectively.
She is currently an Associate Professor at the
School of Integrated Circuits and Electronics, BIT.
Her research interests include analog, RF, and
computing-in-memory.
Pui-In Mak (Fellow, IEEE) received the B.Sc. and
Ph.D. degrees from the University of Macau (UM),
Macau, China, in 2003 and 2006, respectively.
He is currently a Professor with the Faculty
of Science and Technology-ECE, the Director of
the State-Key Laboratory of Analog and Mixed-
Signal VLSI, and the Deputy Director (Research) of
the Institute of Microelectronics, UM. His research
interests include analog and radio frequency (RF)
circuits and systems for wireless and multidisci-
plinary innovations.
Dr. Mak was a TPC Member of the IEEE International Solid-State Circuits
Conference (ISSCC), A-SSCC, and ESSClRC. He is a fellow of IET and
U.K. Royal Society of Chemistry (RSC). He received the Tencent Xplorer
Prize in 2022 and was recognized in 2023 as one of the Top Contributing
Authors of ISSCC in its 70 years of history. He is currently the Editor-in-
Chief of IEEE SOLID-STATE CIRCUITS LETTERS. He is an Overseas Expert
of Chinese Academy of Sciences. He is named as a Foreign Academician
of the Portuguese Academy of Sciences in 2024. He was a Distinguished
Lecturer of the IEEE Circuits and Systems Society and the IEEE Solid-State
Circuits Society. His team reported 39 state-of-the-art chips from 2011 to
2024 ISSCC.
Xiaoran Li received the B.Eng. degree in telecom-
munication engineering from Beijing University of
Posts and Telecommunications, Beijing, China, in
2011, and the M.E. and Ph.D. degrees in electron-
ics science and technology from Beijing Institute
of Technology (BIT), Beijing, in 2013 and 2017,
respectively.
She was a Visiting Scholar with the Department of
Electrical and Computer, Duke University, Durham,
NC, USA, from 2015 to 2016. She was a Post-
Doctoral Research Fellow at BIT, where she is
currently an Assistant Professor. Her research interests include analog, radio
frequency, millimeter-wave integrated circuits design, computing in memory,
sparse sensing, and communications.
Feng Zhang (Senior Member, IEEE) received the
B.S. degree from Beijing Institute of Technology,
Beijing, China, in 2000, and the M.S. and Ph.D.
degrees from the Institute of Microelectronics of
Chinese Academy of Sciences (IMECAS), Beijing,
in 2002 and 2005, respectively.
He once worked on the memory design of the
Loongson CPU at the Institute of Computing Tech-
nology of Chinese Academy of Sciences (ICTCAS)
from 2005 to 2010. In 2010, he joined IMECAS
as a Professor. He has published more than 80
international journal articles and conference papers. His research interests
include memory, low-power digital circuits, and related hardware security
techniques when applied to the “smart Internet of Things (IoT)” ﬁeld.
Dr. Zhang serves as a Technical Committee Member for the IEEE Circuits
and Systems Society (CASS).
This article has been accepted for inclusion in a future issue of this journal. Content is final as presented, with the exception of pagination. 
Authorized licensed use limited to: University of Electronic Science and Tech of China. Downloaded on August 13,2026 at 04:11:57 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
