===== PAGE 1 =====
IEEE JOURNAL OF SOLID-STATE CIRCUITS, VOL. 61, NO. 2, FEBRUARY 2026
763
ETCIM: Error-Tolerant Digital CIM Processor With
Redundancy-Free Hard Error Repair and Run-Time
Soft Error Correction
Yiqi Wang , Graduate Student Member, IEEE, Zhen He, Graduate Student Member, IEEE, Chenggang Zhao,
Zihan Wu , Mingyu Gao , Huiming Han, Shaojun Wei , Fellow, IEEE, Yang Hu , Member, IEEE,
Fengbin Tu , Member, IEEE, and Shouyi Yin , Fellow, IEEE
Abstract— Digital computing-in-memory (CIM) has demon-
strated outstanding energy and area efficiency. Although digital
CIM avoids errors along the in-memory computing path, it is
indispensable to correct hard and soft errors in digital CIM’s
SRAM cells like conventional SRAM for commercial products.
Hard errors come from defects in chip fabrication. Soft errors
result from bit flips in an SRAM cell during CIM computa-
tion, and cause multiply–accumulation (MAC) errors. However,
traditional SRAM’s error correction scheme cannot be directly
applied to digital CIM, which causes hardware overhead in hard
error repair, and incompatibility and latency problems in soft
error correction. To tackle the above challenges, we propose
an error-tolerant digital CIM processor ETCIM with three
corresponding features: 1) a fault-adaptive CIM initializer (FACI)
and input feeder reduce the hard error repair overhead by up
to 8.47× power and 18.16× area savings; 2) a blockwise error
correction code (BW-ECC) CIM macro suits the digital CIM
structure that integrates multiple weight blocks, and corrects soft
MAC errors; and 3) a progressive cell error corrector (PCEC)
hides soft cell error correction latency during computation,
reducing the total latency by up to 96.8%. The fabricated
ETCIM achieves a state-of-the-art energy efficiency with an error
correction of 19.5 tera operations per second (TOPS)/W at INT8.
Index Terms— Computing-in-memory (CIM), error correction
code (ECC), error, error-tolerant design, fault.
Received 13 December 2024; revised 30 March 2025; accepted 24 April
2025. Date of publication 20 May 2025; date of current version 30 January
2026. This article was approved by Associate Editor Sanu Mathew. This
work was supported in part by the National Key Research and Development
Program under Grant 2023YFB4403100; in part by NSFC under Grant
62422407, Grant 62125403, Grant 92464302, Grant U24B20164, and Grant
92164301; in part by Shanghai Municipal Science and Technology Major
Project; in part by the Natural Science Foundation of Jiangsu Province Basic
Research Program under Grant BK20243042; in part by Beijing National
Research Center for Information Science and Technology; and in part by
Beijing Advanced Innovation Center for Integrated Circuits. (Corresponding
authors: Fengbin Tu; Shouyi Yin.)
Yiqi Wang, Zhen He, Zihan Wu, Huiming Han, Shaojun Wei, Yang Hu,
and Shouyi Yin are with the School of Integrated Circuits, Beijing Innovation
Center for Future Chip, and Beijing National Research Center for Information
Science and Technology, Tsinghua University, Beijing 100084, China (e-mail:
yinsy@tsinghua.edu.cn).
Chenggang Zhao and Mingyu Gao are with the Institute for Interdisciplinary
Information Sciences, Tsinghua University, Beijing 100084, China.
Fengbin Tu is with the Department of Electronic and Computer Engineering,
The Hong Kong University of Science and Technology, Hong Kong, China
(e-mail: fengbintu@ust.hk).
Color versions of one or more figures in this article are available at
https://doi.org/10.1109/JSSC.2025.3566283.
Digital Object Identifier 10.1109/JSSC.2025.3566283
I. INTRODUCTION
D
UE to the increasing size and computation of neu-
ral network (NN) models, conventional digital artificial
intelligence (AI) processors usually suffer from massive data
movements between separate multiply–accumulation (MAC)
units and memory. Computing-in-memory (CIM) overcomes
the “memory wall” problem by integrating computation into
memory. Among diverse CIM techniques, digital CIM is
currently one of the most promising architectures [12]. Unlike
conventional analog CIM, digital CIM integrates customized
digital MAC logic into SRAM, enabling multi-row parallel
computation [29]. Digital CIM has demonstrated outstanding
area and energy efficiency [12], [24], [25], [26], [27], [32].
Besides, its power–performance–area (PPA) scales well with
technology scaling [6], [11], [12], [18], avoiding the poor
scaling of analog circuits.
However, although digital CIM employs adders to accumu-
late multiplication results instead of analog additions through
current or voltage like analog CIM, it only avoids the errors
from multi-row addition. Digital CIM’s SRAM cells are still
prone to hard and soft errors as in conventional SRAM.
Fig. 1 depicts the hard and soft error mechanisms in digital
CIM. Hard errors come from defects in chip fabrication. The
mismatch between the mapped weight bit and the correspond-
ing SRAM cell fault type causes a hard error after weights
are mapped to CIM. Soft errors result from bit flips in an
SRAM cell during CIM computation and cause MAC errors.
Therefore, how to correct errors in digital CIM’s SRAM cells
to boost digital CIM’s reliability and robustness is the key for
digital CIM’s real deployment in commercial products.
Although traditional SRAM has mature error correction
schemes such as column repair for hard errors and hamming
error correction code (ECC) code for soft errors, they cannot
be directly applied to digital CIM, which causes hardware
overhead in hard error repair, and incompatibility and latency
problems in soft error correction (see Fig. 2).
1) Challenge1 (Hard Error): Traditional SRAM uses col-
umn repair to select out correct bits from a read-out
row. However, digital CIM reads out multiple rows
simultaneously for computation. Applying traditional
column repair to digital CIM incurs massive detour
0018-9200 © 2025 IEEE. All rights reserved, including rights for text and data mining, and training of artificial intelligence
and similar technologies. Personal use is permitted, but republication/redistribution requires IEEE permission.
See https://www.ieee.org/publications/rights/index.html for more information.
Authorized licensed use limited to: University of Electronic Science and Tech of China. Downloaded on August 13,2026 at 04:11:27 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

===== PAGE 2 =====
764
IEEE JOURNAL OF SOLID-STATE CIRCUITS, VOL. 61, NO. 2, FEBRUARY 2026
Fig. 1.
(a) Hard and (b) soft error mechanisms in digital CIM.
overhead for each read-out row, causing 24.3% area and
14.3% power overhead.
2) Challenge2a
(Soft
MAC
Error):
Traditional
ECC
schemes for SRAM [14] can only correct single-bit
errors in a row. During digital CIM’s row addition,
an SRAM cell flip may cause multiple bit flips in
the multi-bit MAC result, and the traditional ECC is
incompatible.
3) Challenge2b (Soft Cell Error): After MAC error cor-
rection, digital CIM still needs to correct the original
flipped SRAM cell that causes MAC errors, so as to
avoid uncorrected cell errors’ accumulation. However,
this incurs high latency in stalling computation to read
out SRAM rows in turn.
This article proposes the first error-tolerant digital CIM
processor ETCIM. It features comprehensive error tolerance
techniques tailored for digital CIM, including redundancy-free
hard error repair and run-time soft MAC and cell error correc-
tion. ETCIM overcomes the above challenges of error-tolerant
designs in digital CIM with the following three features.
1) For Challenge1, we use a fault-adaptive CIM initial-
izer (FACI) and input feeder, which avoids detour and
redundancy logic and reduces hard error repair overhead
to 1.9% area and 2.0% power. FACI adaptively flips
weights to match faulty SRAM cells’ distribution, and
the input feeder inverts inputs accordingly to ensure
computation equivalence.
2) For Challenge2a, we design a blockwise ECC (BW-
ECC) CIM macro to correct soft MAC errors. When
a soft error happens, rather than protecting flips of
individual bits like traditional ECC, BW-ECC directly
adds the cell error-induced deviation back into the faulty
block’s victim MAC result for error correction. The
faulty block is located by the residue code, and the MAC
result deviation is indicated by the checksum difference.
3) For Challenge2b, we exploit a progressive cell error
corrector (PCEC) to hide the soft cell error correction
latency during computation without stall. Once an MAC
error is detected, in subsequent computation, PCEC
utilizes each computation cycle’s MAC correctness to
check if the current cycle’s activated rows contain the
error row, and gradually reduces the potential error
row (PER) scope until localization. Since different error
columns in the faulty block can be distinguished via
their unique checksum difference, the cell error can be
corrected with the known error row and column.
This article is the journal extension version of our VLSI’24
work [31], providing higher level insights to readers with
many additional materials. The rest of this article is organized
as follows. Section II provides background and motivation.
Section III proposes ETCIM’s overall architecture. The three
architectural features are described in Sections IV–VI, respec-
tively. Section VII presents our experimental results on the
28-nm ETCIM processor. Section VIII concludes this article.
II. BACKGROUND AND MOTIVATION
A. Digital CIM
As shown in Fig. 3(a) and (b), instead of using analog-
to-digital converters (ADCs) and digital-to-analog converters
(DACs) to perform analog MAC like conventional analog
CIM [22], [30], [34], the digital CIM works usually customize
each SRAM cell with an additional two-input NOR for bitwise
multiplication and place digital adders near the SRAM array
for partial sum accumulation. Their differences lie in their
realization approach of accumulating multiplication results:
analog accumulation or digital accumulation. Although digital
CIM avoids the errors along the in-memory accumulation path
using digital adders, its SRAM cells are still prone to hard and
soft errors, similar to conventional analog CIM and SRAM.
B. Errors in Digital CIM
Hard errors mainly come from manufacturing defects like
undesired chemical and airborne particles deposited on the
chip [16], which cause actual damage to the CIM. The most
common hard errors are stuck-at faults, where an SRAM cell
is permanently stuck at a “0” or “1” and cannot be overwritten
with the complementary data value. Soft errors occur when an
unexpected factor like voltage fluctuations interrupts the data
read [8] during CIM computation. They are temporary in that
once a new value is written to the affected word, the error no
longer exists.
Specifically, with technology scaling, both hard and soft
errors become increasingly widespread. For hard errors,
advanced nodes pack billions of transistors into a similar
or smaller chip area, resulting in much higher integration
density where the SRAM cells are closer together. Therefore,
a single defect can, thus, affect a larger number of cells,
causing hard errors to occur more frequently. Besides, the
high integration density necessitates the cells to shrink to
extremely tiny dimensions, making them highly sensitive to
manufacturing variations like a particle or misalignment. The
transistor shrinking also makes maintaining SRAM stability
more difficult. Cells that do not meet stability requirements are
considered defective, lowering the yield and networks’ infer-
ence accuracy. Taking the 100-mm2 5-nm die as an example,
which is roughly the size of the first batch of mobile processors
coming out of TSMC’s process, the manufacturing yield is
only 32.0% without self-repair circuitry [2]. For soft errors,
the operating voltage (Vop) of SRAM transistors reduces as
the technology node advances, while the threshold voltage
Authorized licensed use limited to: University of Electronic Science and Tech of China. Downloaded on August 13,2026 at 04:11:27 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

===== PAGE 3 =====
WANG et al.: ETCIM: ERROR-TOLERANT DIGITAL CIM PROCESSOR WITH REDUNDANCY-FREE HARD ERROR REPAIR
765
Fig. 2.
Digital CIM’s unique structure and error mechanism raise new challenges for error-tolerant design. ETCIM has corresponding features that target the
challenges: FACI and input feeder that repair hard errors, BW-ECC CIM that corrects soft MAC errors, and PCEC that hides soft cell error correction latency.
Fig. 3.
CIM processor architectures. (a) Analog CIM. (b) Digital CIM.
Fig. 4.
Existing error correction techniques for SRAM. (a) Column repair
for hard errors. (b) Hamming code-based ECC for soft errors.
(Vth) reduces slower due to gate engineering limitations [21].
This decreases voltage headroom (Vop–Vth), reducing noise
immunity and increasing soft error possibilities. Therefore,
correcting hard and soft errors becomes more critical at
advanced technology nodes.
C. Existing Error Correction Techniques for SRAM
Traditional SRAM has mature schemes to repair hard errors
and correct soft errors, as depicted in Fig. 4. For hard
errors, redundant columns are often added to the primary
SRAM array as spares so that the defective column can be
replaced with the redundant column as needed. The defective
column replacement is realized by the detour logic in the
read-out peripheral, which bypasses the faulty SRAM cells
in the defective column and selects out correct bits from
other columns in the primary SRAM array and the redundant
column. Besides the redundancy repair, assist circuits can
also be used to address hard errors in SRAM design [13],
[20]. Assist circuits are typically integrated into each cell or
the array periphery, involving additional hardware such as
capacitors, charge pumps, or level shifters to improve the
stability of SRAM cells during read and write operations.
Their differences mainly lie in the cost and usage frequency.
Compared to redundancy repair, assist circuits typically incur
higher overhead because they may require additional transis-
tors or control logic for each cell or column, and need to
remain active continuously. Besides, redundancy repair is a
standardized practice for improving yield in SRAM design,
while assist circuits are more suited to specific needs, such as
low-voltage operation or high stability requirements. To sum
up, despite the presence of assist circuits, redundancy repair
is still indispensable and more commonly used.
For soft errors, hamming code-based ECC [14] is typically
exploited to provide single-bit error correction and double-bit
error detection (SECDED), aiming to protect single bit flip
in one read-out row. In hamming code encoding, data bits are
selectively XORed to form parity bits. In decoding, the read-out
data bits are XORed using the same method as encoding and
compared with the read-out parity bits. If some comparisons
are mismatched, the faulty bit address can be decoded accord-
ing to the mismatched parity bit positions. Since multi-bit
errors in a row are rare in regular environments [17], [23],
typical SECDED ECC can meet most error-resilience cases,
Authorized licensed use limited to: University of Electronic Science and Tech of China. Downloaded on August 13,2026 at 04:11:27 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

===== PAGE 4 =====
766
IEEE JOURNAL OF SOLID-STATE CIRCUITS, VOL. 61, NO. 2, FEBRUARY 2026
which is widely used in industry [1], [15], [19] such as
AMD [1] and NVIDIA [19]. Thus, we also only consider
correcting single bit flip on chip.
D. Digital CIM’s Error Correction Requirements
However, digital CIM’s unique structure raises new error
correction requirements, rendering conventional error correc-
tion techniques for SRAM unsuitable for digital CIM. The
main structural difference between digital CIM and SRAM
is that digital CIM reads out multiple rows simultaneously
to calculate MAC results, while SRAM reads out only one
row in each cycle. This brings digital CIM’s unique error
mechanism, whose correction difficulty is much higher than
that of SRAM. For hard error correction, any read-out row
may have defective SRAM cells, so the expensive detour logic
is inevitable for each row if column repair is applied. For
soft error correction, both MAC and cell error correction are
indispensable. MAC error correction maintains computation
accuracy, and cell error correction eliminates the root cause
of MAC errors to avoid uncorrected cell errors’ accumulation.
If we only correct MAC errors without cell error correction,
when another cell error occurs, the MAC error cannot be cor-
rected as accumulated cell errors exceed the ECC capability.
However, the traditional hamming code-based ECC fails to
meet the protection needs of both computation and storage in
digital CIM. The MAC results may occur multiple bit flips
due to the flipped SRAM cell-induced carry propagation (see
Fig. 1), which exceeds the single error correction capability of
the traditional ECC. Besides, digital CIM’s MAC results merge
the information of multiple read-out rows and confuse the
distinction between correct and faulty SRAM cells. Therefore,
digital CIM needs to correct cell errors in any possible read-out
row after MAC error correction, necessitating time-consuming
row-by-row reading out to locate the error row.
E. Motivation of ETCIM
In this article, we will discuss how to leverage the
computational and storage characteristics of digital CIM to
overcome the above error correction challenges. For hard
errors, we notice that the stored weights do not need to
be exactly the same as the original weights. Digital CIM
only needs to maintain computational correctness, so we
can adaptively flip weights to match faulty SRAM cells and
invert inputs accordingly, achieving redundancy-free hard error
repair. For soft MAC errors, since multiple weights are con-
catenated and stored in a CIM row, digital CIM can be divided
into multiple weight blocks according to the weight precision
and each block outputs an MAC result in each cycle. Although
we can employ checksum to obtain the deviation between the
victim MAC result and the correct result in the faulty block,
how to locate the faulty block among multiple weight blocks
is quite challenging. Traditional ECC uses bitwise XOR to
protect individual data bits, but digital CIM needs to protect
many multi-bit weights, and XOR-based protection fails to
maintain effectiveness during multi-row addition [9]. In this
work, we propose BW-ECC that suits digital CIM’s storage
characteristics. It combines hamming code and residue code
to maintain ECC’s effectiveness during addition, enabling the
Fig. 5.
ETCIM processor’s overall architecture, with three configurations for
hard error repair, soft MAC error correction, and soft cell error correction.
faulty block localization based on weights’ and ECC’s MAC
results. For soft cell errors, we take the opportunity that
each computation cycle’s MAC correctness can be used to
indicate if the error row is activated. Besides, since MAC
errors can be corrected by BW-ECC in real time, digital CIM
can maintain computational correctness in the presence of
cell error. Thus, we hide the soft cell error correction latency
during computation and utilize each computation cycle’s MAC
correctness and different activated rows to gradually locate and
correct the error row.
To sum up, ETCIM employs different error correction
approaches for hard and soft errors due to their different error
mechanisms. For hard errors, we do not correct the original
faulty SRAM cell, as it comes from manufacturing defects
and cannot be overwritten with the correct value. On the
contrary, we counteract the hard errors’ impacts, which main-
tains digital CIM’s functional correctness with the presence of
hard errors. For soft errors, since the flipped SRAM cell can
be overwritten with the correct value, we locate and correct
the original soft cell error directly, which eliminates the root
cause of soft errors and solves the problem fundamentally.
Therefore, both hard and soft error corrections enable digital
CIM to operate correctly under a certain rate of hard and soft
errors, which improves digital CIM’s error tolerance capability.
Sections III–VI will go deeper into the implementation details
of these error tolerance techniques.
III. ETCIM PROCESSOR ARCHITECTURE
The ETCIM processor’s overall architecture is shown in
Fig. 5, with three features highlighted in different colors.
It consists of four CIM cores, an FACI, a built-in self-test
(BIST) unit, a 32-kB input buffer, a 16-kB global buffer,
a single instruction multiple data (SIMD) core, and a top
controller. The CIM core includes an input feeder, a PCEC,
and a BW-ECC CIM macro, whose SRAM cells are con-
structed using the logic design rule. Each macro comprises
16 8 × 281 subarrays, and each CIM row has 256-b weight
data, 13-b checksum, and 12-b residue code. The minimal
support weight precision is 8 b, so the 256-b weight data of the
Authorized licensed use limited to: University of Electronic Science and Tech of China. Downloaded on August 13,2026 at 04:11:27 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

===== PAGE 5 =====
WANG et al.: ETCIM: ERROR-TOLERANT DIGITAL CIM PROCESSOR WITH REDUNDANCY-FREE HARD ERROR REPAIR
767
CIM macro can be divided into 32 weight blocks according
to the weight precision. Each weight block corresponds to
different output channels, so there are 32 output channels per
row. The total stored weight data of all subarrays are “128
input channels × 32 output channels,” which follows the prior
state-of-the-art digital CIMs’ weight mapping scheme [6],
[12], [18]. In each cycle, each subarray activates one row, and
each block accumulates the multiplication results from 16 rows
and generates an MAC result in parallel. Therefore, the total
read-out weight data are “16 input channels × 32 output
channels.” The eight rows of each subarray are activated
sequentially. Since different weights across the 128 rows of
the same weight block contribute to the same result in one
output channel, the access order of the rows within subarrays
does not affect the correctness of partial sum accumulation.
The reason why each block corresponds to different output
channels is that the CIM macro has the input broadcasting
characteristic, where input is shared across all weights in
a row. Since inputs are multiplied with multiple weights in
different output channels in NNs, storing different output chan-
nels’ weights in different blocks achieves a match between the
algorithm property and hardware characteristic. If each block
corresponds to different input channels, 32 inputs need to be
unicast to 32 8-b weights in each row, resulting in expensive
wiring overhead.
ETCIM has different configurations for hard error repair,
soft MAC error correction, and soft cell error correction.
The different modes reuse the same datapath to save hard-
ware resources. In CIM initialization, FACI performs adaptive
weight flipping for each weight row and maps them onto
CIM macros to repair hard errors. In CIM computation, the
input feeder inverts inputs sent to flipped weights for MAC
operations. If the checksum difference is not zero, the soft
error is detected by the error detector. Then, the faulty block
localizer exploits the residue code to locate the faulty block,
and the MAC error corrector restores the correct MAC result
by adding the checksum difference to the victim MAC result.
The macro accumulator completes partial sum accumulation
for correct MAC results, and CIM outputs are written to the
global buffer with activation functions performed by the SIMD
core. Meanwhile, PCEC is activated to reduce the PER scope
until localization. After the error row is found, the cell error
position can be located since the error column can be inferred
by the checksum difference and faulty block address. Finally,
the correct row is generated and rewritten back to CIM to
correct the cell error.
IV. FACI AND INPUT FEEDER
A. Hard Error Repair Workflow
Fig. 6 uses an example to explain the hard error repair
workflow. The original weights W0 and W1 are (1010)2 and
(0010)2, respectively, but the second column of the SRAM to
be mapped is defective, which has a stuck-at 1 fault and stuck-
at 0 fault on the two rows. If we map the two weights onto
the CIM macro directly without column repair, the mismatch
between the mapped weight bit and the corresponding SRAM
cell fault type will cause a hard error in the first row.
To avoid expensive detour logic incurred by column repair,
in this work, we adaptively flip weights to match faulty SRAM
Fig. 6. Hard error repair workflow example. ➊Weights are adaptively flipped
to match faulty SRAM cells’ distribution in CIM initialization. ➋Inputs are
inverted accordingly in CIM computation.
cells’ distribution, instead of bypassing faulty SRAM cells to
match weight values. If the original weight W cannot be stored
correctly in CIM, the W can always be, ensuring that either
the correct W or W is stored successfully. In this example,
W0’s second bit (0) mismatches the corresponding stuck-at
1 fault but W1’s second bit (0) matches the corresponding
stuck-at 0 fault. Therefore, we flip W0 to form W0 and
remain W1 unchanged, and map them onto CIM. Meanwhile,
we record that the flip signal of the first row equals 1, which
guides the corresponding input inversion.
Note that to avoid stuck-at faults at any possible SRAM
cell position, we need to flip all weight bits and map W
rather than −W if a mismatch happens. This is because due
to the 2’s complement representation, −W equals W + 1,
and a few LSB bits in −W are the same with W. If these
bits of W mismatch the corresponding SRAM cell fault type,
the mismatch still exists when mapping −W. In other words,
mapping neither −W nor W can repair the hard error in some
cases, as both of their mapping results are not the correct
value. Therefore, we choose to store W or W to ensure that
at least one of them can be stored correctly. When the W is
stored, an additional 1 should be added to W to transform it to
−W if the current input bit is not zero. The +1 compensation
is added directly to the final result, and its implementation
details will be elaborated in Section IV-B.
Besides addressing a single hard error in a weight, our
redundancy-free repair can also handle the scenario where two
hard errors occur in a weight in certain situations. In fact,
our adaptive weight flipping has the ability to counteract the
impacts of at least one hard error per row. Even if two hard
errors occur in a weight, whose probability of occurrence is
quite low, we can still maintain the computational correctness
as long as the two SRAM cell fault types are all mismatched or
not mismatched with the corresponding mapped weight bits.
If they are all matched, we map the original weight directly to
CIM. Otherwise, we flip the weight and map since the flipped
weight can be successfully stored in CIM.
B. FACI and Input Feeder Architecture
After discussing the hard error repair workflow, we go
deeper into FACI and input feeder’s detailed architecture
to explain how the proposed workflow is implemented in
hardware, as illustrated in Fig. 7. FACI comprises a hard error
recorder and an adaptive weight-flipping unit. The BIST unit
detects the list of hard errors from fabrication after the chip
is powered on, and stores it in FACI. For each SRAM row
to be mapped, FACI first checks the hard error list. If this
row has a stuck-at fault and the cell fault type mismatches the
Authorized licensed use limited to: University of Electronic Science and Tech of China. Downloaded on August 13,2026 at 04:11:27 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

===== PAGE 6 =====
768
IEEE JOURNAL OF SOLID-STATE CIRCUITS, VOL. 61, NO. 2, FEBRUARY 2026
Fig. 7.
FACI and input feeder architecture.
Fig. 8. Evaluation for the FACI and input feeder on hard error repair overhead
reduction. Baseline: conventional column repair method, where each read-out
row in digital CIM has a redundant column and detour logic for repair. MAC
parallelism is the count of weight rows that are simultaneously read out and
accumulated to complete MAC operations.
corresponding weight bit, FACI flips all bits of the weight
row and maps them onto CIM. Since the CIM macro has
16 subarrays and each subarray reads out one row in each
cycle, we equip 16 input negators in the input driver. Each
of them controls whether to invert the input based on the flip
signal of the activated weight row. After input inversion, the
input driver generates the compensation for each read-out row.
If the weight row just stores the original W, the compensation
is zero. Otherwise, a +1 compensation is required to transform
the stored W to −W. Note that if the current input bit is zero,
the multiplication result Q[7:0] is always zero, so transforming
W to −W before multiplication is redundant. Therefore,
the +1 compensation is only necessary when both the flip
signal and current input bit equal one. To avoid compensation
addition logic overhead incurred for each row, we accumulate
different row’s compensations in advance in the input driver
and add the compensation sum to the array adder directly.
C. Technique Evaluation
Fig. 8 shows the evaluation for the FACI and input feeder.
We select different MAC parallelisms ranging from 16 to
128 to evaluate our effects for hard error repair overhead
reduction. MAC parallelism is the count of weight rows that
are simultaneously read out and accumulated to complete
MAC operations. Our MAC parallelism is 16, while other
MAC parallelism results are based on simulation. The baseline
is digital CIM using conventional column repair, where each
read-out row has a redundant column and detour logic for
repair. The implementation of FACI and input feeder is much
more lightweight than the complex and expensive detour
logic. Only a small number of hard errors are randomly
distributed in SRAM, so storing the addresses where faults
occur in the hard error recorder only consumes little storage
overhead. Besides, the input feeder only manages the input
inversion of the 16 current inputs to 16 activated weight rows,
without the need to care for all input features. Therefore, only
16 registers and inverters need to be reserved, so the input
feeder’s implementation logic is simple, no matter whether
the input bitwidth is 8 or 16. Compared with the baseline,
our redundancy-free hard error repair achieves 7.23-to-8.47×
power and 12.87-to-18.16× area savings. As more rows are
simultaneously read out, the detour logic overhead grows
proportionally in the baseline, and our method can save more.
To further evaluate the benefits of the designed input feeder
that inverts inputs on chip, we compare the area and power
overhead between the input feeder and storing both the flipped
and non-flipped inputs in the input buffer. In other words, the
baseline is also based on the redundancy-free hard error repair.
Their differences lie in how we invert the inputs, i.e., online or
offline. The baseline inverts the inputs offline and stores both
the flipped and non-flipped inputs in the input buffer, which
is a naive implementation, so the input feeder is not required.
In contrast, ETCIM employs the input feeder to invert the input
online based on the flip signal of the activated weight row and
does not store the two copies of inputs in the input buffer.
As the input feeder’s area and power overhead are much less
than those of the input buffer, ETCIM delivers 1.19× area
saving and 1.17× power reduction in total compared to the
baseline.
V. BW-ECC CIM MACRO
A. Soft MAC Error Correction Workflow
As mentioned in Section III, the implemented CIM macro
comprises 32 weight blocks. To simplify the illustration of our
soft MAC error correction principle, we begin with a simple
example with four weight blocks. As shown in Fig. 9(a),
in each CIM row, besides weight blocks, each row comprises
the checksum and residue code that are encoded offline and
stored in CIM. The checksum stores the sum of all weight
blocks. The residue code stores selective blocks’ mod3 addi-
tion results.
Fig. 9(b) illustrates the implementation details of the
selective mod3 addition and its comparison with traditional
hamming code. Hamming code selectively combines data bits
to form parity bits using bitwise XOR. Both data bits that need
protection and parity bits are individual bits. BW-ECC also
selectively combines weight blocks to form residue codes. The
selective combination method is the same as hamming code.
Their differences lie in that, in BW-ECC, each weight block
that needs protection has 8-b precision. Therefore, we extend
each 1-b parity bit in hamming code to 2-b residue code, which
stores the mod3 value (0, 1, or 2) of selective blocks’ addition
results. The reason for the employment of the mod3 residue
code is elaborated as follows: if some weight bit flips from 0 to
Authorized licensed use limited to: University of Electronic Science and Tech of China. Downloaded on August 13,2026 at 04:11:27 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

===== PAGE 7 =====
WANG et al.: ETCIM: ERROR-TOLERANT DIGITAL CIM PROCESSOR WITH REDUNDANCY-FREE HARD ERROR REPAIR
769
Fig. 9.
Soft MAC error correction workflow. (a) BW-ECC error correction
scheme and a four-block example. ➊Error detection, ➋faulty block local-
ization, and ➌error correction. (b) Comparison between traditional hamming
code and our BW-ECC.
1 or from 1 to 0, this weight value will occur a ±2i deviation.
The deviation will propagate to the MAC result after multi-
row addition, so the victim MAC result’s mod3 value will
mismatch the correct value. Thus, by comparing MAC results’
mod3 addition value with the residue code again, we can locate
the faulty block address according to the comparison mismatch
situation. The decoding of the faulty block address is similar
to the process of faulty bit address decoding in hamming code.
During computation, each cycle’s MAC errors are detected
and corrected via ECC decoding. The first step is error
detection. We first compare the sum of all weight blocks’ MAC
results with the checksum MAC results. The difference is the
deviation of the victim MAC result from the correct value
in the faulty block. If the checksum difference is not zero,
the error is detected. In this example, the original weight in
Block1’s second row is 3 [(00000011)2]. However, after a cell
error happens, the weight is corrupted to 11 [(00001011)2],
so the victim MAC result is 8 greater than the original value,
leading to a non-zero checksum difference.
The second step is faulty block localization. We selectively
add weight blocks’ MAC results using mod3 arithmetic, which
is the same as encoding. If no cell error happens, weight MAC
results’ mod3 addition values are the same as residue code’s
MAC results in the mod3 domain. Otherwise, once a cell
error happens in a block and propagates to this block’s MAC
result, its mod3 value will mismatch the correct value, which
is reflected in non-zero Ak to decode the faulty block address.
In the example, Block1’s victim MAC result (24)’s mod3 value
is 0, but the correct MAC result (16)’s mod3 value is 1. Since
Block1 is involved in the calculation of residue codes P2 and
P0, weight MAC results’ mod3 addition values mismatch P2
and P0’s MAC results. Therefore, (A2A1A0)2 equals (101)2,
which indicates that the faulty block is Block1.
The third step is the error correction. After the faulty block
and the deviation from the correct value are known, the victim
MAC result adds the checksum difference to correct the MAC
error. Block1’s correct result is 24 + (−8) = 16.
Fig. 10.
BW-ECC CIM macro architecture: ➊error detector, ➋faulty block
localizer, and ➌MAC error corrector.
Fig. 11.
Evaluation for the BW-ECC CIM on soft MAC error correction.
(a) ECC code and ECC decoder overhead in a BW-ECC CIM macro. (b) SER
reduction at different voltages. Baseline: conventional digital CIM without
BW-ECC.
B. BW-ECC CIM Architecture
Next, we introduce BW-ECC CIM’s detailed architecture
to explain how it works to support the above three steps,
as shown in Fig. 10. The ECC encoder is inserted between
the array adders and the global accumulator, which protects
each block’s MAC correctness before MAC results are sent
to the accumulator for partial sum accumulation. The three
steps such as error detection, localization, and correction in
ECC decoding are realized by the three modules in the ECC
decoder. Since there are 32 weight blocks in the actual imple-
mentation, six residue codes (P0–P5) are required, and the
selective combination method follows the (38, 32) hamming
code realization. To save the overhead of weight MAC results’
mod3 addition, we first generate 32 MAC result’s mod3 values
and then combine them using mod3 addition, avoiding the
repeated transformation overhead for the original MAC results
into the mod3 domain.
C. Technique Evaluation
Fig. 11 shows the evaluation for the BW-ECC CIM.
Fig. 11(a) breaks down the area and power of a BW-ECC
CIM macro. CIM-Base represents the base digital CIM macro
logic excluding the ECC-related overhead. ECC code includes
residue code and checksum’s storage and MAC operation
overhead. Due to the low proportion of ECC code compared
to weight blocks and the lightweight error correction design,
the ECC-related logic (including ECC code and ECC decoder)
Authorized licensed use limited to: University of Electronic Science and Tech of China. Downloaded on August 13,2026 at 04:11:27 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

===== PAGE 8 =====
770
IEEE JOURNAL OF SOLID-STATE CIRCUITS, VOL. 61, NO. 2, FEBRUARY 2026
Fig. 12.
Soft cell error correction example (error row = row 15).
Fig. 13.
Soft error correction workflow chart.
only consumes 8.3% area and 8.2% power overhead. Fig. 11(b)
shows the soft error rate (SER) reduction at different voltages.
The SER is the probability of an SRAM cell occurring
soft errors. The baseline SER versus voltage curve is the
typical results [10], [28] at the read-critical process corner
(temperature: 22 ◦C), and our curve is simulated based on it.
In comparison to digital CIM without BW-ECC, our MAC
error correction achieves 79.8× and 3138.6× SER reduction
at 0.7 and 0.8 V, respectively.
VI. PROGRESSIVE CELL ERROR CORRECTOR
A. Soft Cell Error Correction Workflow
Although BW-ECC can correct MAC errors, we still need to
correct the original flipped SRAM cell that causes MAC errors
to avoid uncorrected cell errors’ accumulation, as discussed in
Section II-D. Since MAC results merge the information of
multiple read-out rows and confuse the distinction of correct
and faulty SRAM rows, we need to locate the error row
between multiple simultaneously activated rows. BW-ECC’s
MAC error correction ability enables CIM to continue com-
putation with the presence of cell error. Meanwhile, PCEC
utilizes each computation cycle’s MAC correctness and dif-
ferent activated rows to gradually locate and correct the error
row during computation.
We begin with a simple example of soft cell error correction
shown in Fig. 12, with its workflow chart plotted in Fig. 13.
When a cell error happens in @cycle t −1, CIM detects an
MAC error at the first time. Therefore, the PER is all activated
rows in this cycle (e.g., {0, 1, 3, 15}), as each row appearing
a cell error will lead to incorrect MAC results.
Then, the PER scope is narrowed in consecutive computa-
tion cycles. If this cycle’s MAC result is not correct, we can
know that the error row is activated in this cycle. For instance,
in @cycle t, the activated rows are Rows 0, 2, 14, and 15, and
the error row is one of them. Therefore, PER can be reduced
to the intersection between the last cycle’s PER ({0, 1, 3, 15})
and this cycle’s input vector ({0, 2, 14, 15}), so only two rows
(Rows 0 and 15) may have the cell error now.
Fig. 14.
PCEC architecture.
Otherwise, if this cycle’s MAC result is correct, it indicates
that the error row is not activated in this cycle. In @cycle t +
1, since this cycle’s activated rows (Rows 0, 3, and 14) do not
have the error row, PER can exclude its intersection with the
current input vector (Row 0). Once the PER has only one row,
the error row (Row 15) is found.
B. PCEC Architecture
Fig. 14 demonstrates the PCEC’s detailed architecture.
It comprises an error row localizer, a cell error localizer, and a
correct row generator. As illustrated in Section VI-B, we rep-
resent PER using bitmaps and store them in the registers. The
“1” denotes rows that are possible to have errors, while “0”
denotes rows that are not. The error row localizer gradually
reduces the PER following the equation in Fig. 12. Note that
to ensure effective PER scope reduction, we only activate
PCEC when the input data contain both 1s and 0s. If the
16 subarrays’ inputs are all zeros under high input sparsity, this
cycle’s computation is skipped for speedup. Meanwhile, PCEC
is deactivated to avoid useless error row localization. Once the
error row is found, the cell error localizer locates the cell error
position in this error row based on the checksum difference
and faulty block address from PCEC. Since each cell flip will
result in a ±2i deviation in the victim MAC result, different
error columns in the faulty block can be distinguished via
their unique checksum difference. For instance, the deviation
of the victim MAC result from the correct value is +23, so we
can know that its root cause is the 5th bit in Block1 flipping
from 0 to 1. After the cell error position is known, the error
weight row is fetched from CIM according to the decoded
error row address. Then, we employ XOR gates to correct the
flipped SRAM cell. Finally, the correct row is generated on
chip and rewritten back to CIM.
As described in Section II-C, we only consider correcting
single-bit errors in a row. To avoid multi-bit errors, we track
the located error row from PCEC during computation. If a row
is recorded more than twice in a short period, we consider a
multi-bit error occurring in this row. Then, we stall computa-
tion, reload the original correct row from off-chip, and rewrite
the error row using the correct row.
Authorized licensed use limited to: University of Electronic Science and Tech of China. Downloaded on August 13,2026 at 04:11:27 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

===== PAGE 9 =====
WANG et al.: ETCIM: ERROR-TOLERANT DIGITAL CIM PROCESSOR WITH REDUNDANCY-FREE HARD ERROR REPAIR
771
Fig. 15.
Evaluation for the PCEC on hiding soft cell error correction
latency, evaluated on ResNet-50 inference at INT8. Baseline: digital CIM
with BW-ECC but without PCEC, which stalls computation and reads out
SRAM rows in turn to locate the error row after detecting an MAC error. *1:
SER is 1E-5. *2: the MAC parallelism is 16.
C. Technique Evaluation
Fig. 15 shows the evaluation for the PCEC. The benchmark
is ResNet-50, where weights and inputs are quantized to 8 b
for all layers. We select different MAC parallelisms ranging
from 16 to 128 and different SERs to evaluate PCEC’s effects
for hiding soft cell error correction latency. The different
networks’ trends are similar, so we only present a set of results
on one network. The baseline is digital CIM with BW-ECC but
without PCEC, which stalls computation and reads out SRAM
rows in turn to locate the error row after detecting an MAC
error. With the growth of MAC parallelisms, the computation
latency decreases since more rows are simultaneously read out
for computation. However, the baseline’s cell error correction
latency increases as more rows need to be read out in turn
to locate the error row. Therefore, our PCEC delivers more
latency reduction as the MAC parallelism increases, ranging
from 38.62% to 96.80%. Similarly, our solution achieves up
to 16.72× speedup with the growth of SERs, as errors occur
more frequently and the baseline’s row-by-row reading out
latency increases. Thanks to the efficient error row localization
mechanism and lightweight hardware logic, PCEC only incurs
1.4% area and 1.6% power overhead.
VII. EXPERIMENTAL RESULTS
This section first describes ETCIM’s measurement results
from a 28-nm fabricated chip. We then provide the test
platform setup for evaluation. Next, we elaborate our error
injection methodology for individual technique evaluation.
We conduct a comprehensive evaluation for ETCIM’s error
correction techniques, including benefits of accuracy and
energy efficiency. Finally, we compare ETCIM with state-of-
the-art works.
A. Chip Micrograph and Summary
Figs.
16–18
present
the
ETCIM’s
chip
micrograph,
specifications, and the scaling curves between frequency,
power, energy efficiency, and area efficiency versus volt-
age. ETCIM is fabricated in 28-nm CMOS technology,
with a 1.93 × 1.57 mm2 die area. The chip can work at
0.55∼1.0-V supply, 50∼330 MHz with power consumption
of 2.13∼14.56 mW. ETCIM can support INT8 and INT16
precision, where INT16 support is realized by concatenating
two INT8 weight blocks to store INT16 weights and shift-
and-adding their CIM outputs to form INT16 MAC results.
Fig. 16.
ETCIM’s chip micrograph and specifications.
Fig. 17.
ETCIM’s voltage–frequency scaling curves.
Fig. 18.
ETCIM’s voltage–efficiency scaling curves. The energy and area
efficiency are plotted at IN8 precision.
The peak performance reaches 0.17 tera operations per second
(TOPS) at INT8 and 0.04 TOPS at INT16 under 1.0 V,
330 MHz. The highest efficiency point is 0.65 V, 150 MHz.
When the operating voltage is lower than 0.65 V, the switch-
ing speed of transistors slows down, resulting in a reduced
frequency. However, at this time, the voltage approaches the
threshold voltage of the transistors, leading to a subthreshold
leakage current. Therefore, static power consumption becomes
excessively dominant, creating an energy efficiency drop.
Without error correction logic, the highest energy efficiency
is 21.3 TOPS/W at INT8 and 5.33 TOPS/W at INT16 under
0.65 V, 150 MHz. With error correction logic, the highest
energy efficiency is 19.5 TOPS/W at INT8 and 4.87 TOPS/W
at INT16 under 0.65 V, 150 MHz. The metrics without error
correction logic are evaluated on the digital CIM that excludes
the three features from ETCIM. The energy efficiency gap
between the digital CIM with error correction and that without
can be used to evaluate the overhead of the proposed error-
tolerant designs. ETCIM showcases a minimal 8.6% impact
Authorized licensed use limited to: University of Electronic Science and Tech of China. Downloaded on August 13,2026 at 04:11:27 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

===== PAGE 10 =====
772
IEEE JOURNAL OF SOLID-STATE CIRCUITS, VOL. 61, NO. 2, FEBRUARY 2026
Fig. 19.
ETCIM’s area and power breakdown.
Fig. 20.
Test platforms for the fabricated ETCIM processor.
on energy efficiency from error tolerance, demonstrating its
practicality and feasibility for commercial designs.
We break down the area and power of ETCIM to present
different techniques’ overhead, as depicted in Fig. 19. FACI
manages CIM cores’ initialization, consuming only 0.3% in
area and 0.2% in power. The input feeder is attached to each
BW-ECC CIM macro for according input inversion, which
consumes only 0.7% in area and 1.1% in power. PCEC corrects
cell errors for each CIM macro, consuming 1.4% in area and
1.6% in power. The BW-ECC-related overhead is elaborated
in Fig. 11.
B. Test Platform Setup
Fig. 20 illustrates the test platform for the fabricated ETCIM
processor. The system is composed of an ETCIM test chip,
Xilinx VC709 field-programmable gate array (FPGA) board,
dc power, logic analyzer, oscilloscope, and host computer. The
test dataset and NN model are stored in the FPGA board’s
DDR3 memory. The FPGA sends control signals and data to
the ETCIM test chip board via the FPGA mezzanine connector
(FMC). The dc power supplies 0.55∼1.0-V core voltage for
the test chip. The oscilloscope and logic analyzer observe
the chip’s state signals and logic signals. ETCIM’s computing
results are collected by the FPGA and then sent to the host
computer for further analysis.
C. Error Injection Methodology
To verify the effectiveness of the proposed techniques,
we manually inject hard and soft errors to digital CIM. Before
CIM initialization, hard errors are injected into SRAM by fix-
ing certain SRAM cell values to 0 or 1 with the probability of
hard error rate (HER), which mimics the randomly distributed
Fig. 21.
Accuracy improvement from redundancy-free hard error repair on
various benchmarks.
stuck-at 1 or 0 faults from chip fabrication. During each read in
CIM computation, we flip cell values with a certain possibility
based on the typical SER-voltage curve at 28 nm [10], [28]
to inject soft errors. This mimics the read disturbance issue
under low supply voltages. By manually adjusting the error
injection settings, the proposed error correction techniques
can be comprehensively evaluated under various experimental
settings, such as different MAC parallelisms, HER and SER,
and voltages.
D. Evaluation for Error Correction Techniques
1) Accuracy Improvement: To evaluate the effects of our
hard error repair and soft error correction, we inject hard
and soft errors separately, and compare the inference accu-
racy between the baseline and ETCIM. Fig. 21 presents
the accuracy improvement from our redundancy-free hard
error repair on various benchmarks. Weights and inputs are
quantized to 8 b for all benchmarks. The baseline is the same
digital CIM without hard error repair. To comprehensively
evaluate our effects under different scenarios, we vary the
HER of an SRAM cell from 1.0E-6 to 1.0E-2 and observe
the corresponding accuracy of the baseline and ETCIM. When
the HER is low, the NN can recover the inference accuracy
due to its inherent error resilience. However, as the increasing
HER exceeds NN’s inherent resilience, the baseline suffers
from significant accuracy loss. In contrast, our redundancy-free
hard error repair counteracts the impacts of at least one hard
error per SRAM row, largely recovering the accuracy under
high HERs. The accuracy improvement reaches up to 56.46%,
53.34%, 64.87%, and 65.00%, respectively, on ResNet50,
ResNeXt101-64 × 4-D, GoogleNet, and MobileNet-V2.
Fig. 22 presents the accuracy improvement from our
run-time soft MAC and cell error correction on various bench-
marks. Weights and inputs are also quantized to 8 b. The
baseline is the same digital CIM without soft error correction.
Since low voltage operation is a typical scenario that reduces
SRAM cells’ resilience to soft errors, we use voltage scaling
to analyze how our method performs under different voltages.
Compared to the baseline, we improve the inference accuracy
by 32.57%, 48.39%, and 52.51%, respectively, on ResNet50,
ResNeXt101-64 × 4-D, and GoogleNet, at 0.6-V operat-
ing voltage. The accuracy improvement of MobileNet-V2 is
Authorized licensed use limited to: University of Electronic Science and Tech of China. Downloaded on August 13,2026 at 04:11:27 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

===== PAGE 11 =====
WANG et al.: ETCIM: ERROR-TOLERANT DIGITAL CIM PROCESSOR WITH REDUNDANCY-FREE HARD ERROR REPAIR
773
Fig. 22.
Accuracy improvement from run-time soft MAC and cell error
correction on various benchmarks, and operating range comparison between
baseline and ours. Operating range: the effective working voltage region of
digital CIM, where the inference accuracy loss is lower than 1%.
61.98% when operating at 0.65 V. The BW-ECC corrects most
of the MAC errors, and the PCEC corrects the underlying cell
errors to avoid uncorrected errors’ accumulation, maintaining
the MAC error correction capability for subsequent errors.
Besides the effects on accuracy improvement at the same
operating voltage, our soft error correction also allows digital
CIM to operate at lower voltages to improve energy efficiency.
To quantify its effectiveness, we plot the operating range of
the baseline and ours on different benchmarks. The operating
range is defined as the effective working voltage region of
digital CIM where the accuracy loss is lower than 1%. Digital
CIM can only work at the operating range to maintain accept-
able inference accuracy. Thanks to our run-time soft MAC
and cell error correction, ETCIM can maintain its functional
correctness at a wider operating range. Then, we fine-tune the
voltage in the operating range to find the optimum operation
point that achieves the highest energy efficiency, according to
the energy efficiency versus voltage curve. Since the highest
efficiency point [(0.65 V, 150 MHz), see Fig. 17] is inside
the operating range for all benchmarks, the four networks’
optimum operation points are all at 0.65 V. In contrast, the
baseline can only work at high voltages to avoid accuracy loss,
so its achievable highest energy efficiency is lower than ours.
It proves that our soft error correction enables edge devices
to have a wider operating range to fine-tune the voltage for
higher energy efficiency, which is helpful in scenarios with a
tight power budget.
2) Energy Efficiency Improvement: Fig. 23 demonstrates a
technique breakdown analysis to evaluate different error cor-
rection techniques’ benefits on energy efficiency improvement.
We select different MAC parallelisms ranging from 16 to 128.
The baseline is the same digital CIM with conventional error
correction techniques. Since conventional digital CIM can
only employ column repair to correct hard errors and lack
soft error tolerance abilities, we equip the baseline with our
BW-ECC technique (Feature2a) to enable protection against
both hard and soft errors, which is the same as ETCIM.
Cell error correction is realized by stalling computation and
reading out SRAM rows in turn. We set the SER with
ECC as 1E-5. Then, we enhance the baseline with hard
Fig. 23.
Energy efficiency improvement breakdown of different techniques
under various MAC parallelisms. SER is 1E-5. “Baseline”: digital CIM with
only redundant column repair and BW-ECC for hard and soft error correc-
tions. “Repair Opt.”: baseline + redundancy-free repair. “Ours”: baseline +
redundancy-free repair + run-time cell error correction.
error repair optimization (Feature1). The eliminated huge
detour logic overhead contributes to 1.08× to 1.17× energy
efficiency improvements, under different MAC parallelisms.
Our ETCIM further enhances the baseline with run-time
cell error correction (Feature2b). The concealed cell error
correction latency brings more effective computation time,
which improves performance, and the entire energy efficiency
improvement reaches 1.73× to 36.2×. The growth of MAC
parallelism increases the detour logic overhead and row-by-
row cell error correction latency for the baseline, so our
optimized hard and soft error correction techniques deliver
more benefits.
E. Comparison With the State-of-the-Art Works
Table I shows a detailed comparison with the state-of-the-art
CIM processors. ISSCC’22-16.3 [5] is a ReRAM CIM-based
processor, which integrates ECC capability to protect against
MAC errors in ReRAM CIM from inherent device variation.
ISSCC’23-29.5 [4] is also a ReRAM CIM-based processor,
whose ReRAM macro can be configured as an error-correcting
or a regular CIM macro depending upon the error com-
pensation requirement. ISSCC’23-33.4 [3] is a MRAM CIM
architecture, with column repair approach to map the address
of the column with weak bit cells to an idle redundant column.
ISSCC’22-15.5 [24] and ISSCC’23-7.4 [18] are the state-
of-the-art digital CIM processors, without error correction
abilities. As the first digital CIM processor with error tolerance
capability, ETCIM features redundancy-free repair for hard
errors and run-time error correction for soft errors.
To compare the efficiency loss from error correction across
different CIM processors, we list their energy efficiency with
and without error corrections, respectively. Original architec-
tures of [3], [4], and [5] only employ one of the ECCs or
repair. Thus, we exclude their original error-tolerant support
to evaluate efficiency without error correction and include both
ECC and repair to compare efficiency with error correction.
Mori et al. [18] and Tu et al. [24] do not have error tolerance
abilities, so we equip them with a traditional column repair
approach and our BW-ECC to enable error correction, which is
the same as the baseline setting in Section VII-D2. Our settings
have been elaborated in Section VII-A. ETCIM’s peak energy
efficiency with error correction reaches 19.5 TOPS/W at INT8,
Authorized licensed use limited to: University of Electronic Science and Tech of China. Downloaded on August 13,2026 at 04:11:27 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

===== PAGE 12 =====
774
IEEE JOURNAL OF SOLID-STATE CIRCUITS, VOL. 61, NO. 2, FEBRUARY 2026
TABLE I
COMPARISON WITH THE STATE-OF-THE-ART CIM PROCESSORS
which is 1.32× higher than [24] and 6.87× higher than [18].
Although Mori et al. [18] achieve the highest energy efficiency
without error correction, its efficiency significantly degrades if
we need to correct hard and soft errors in it. This is because
Mori et al.’s [18] MAC parallelism is 144, largely increasing
the detour logic overhead and row-by-row cell error correction
latency, which leads to 96.7% efficiency loss. In contrast,
ETCIM’s efficiency loss is only 8.6%, due to its efficient
error-resilience designs. The redundancy-free repair eliminates
the expensive detour logic via adaptive weight flipping. The
BW-ECC and PCEC conceal the cell error correction latency
in subsequent computation and realize run-time MAC and cell
error correction, avoiding the time-consuming computation
stall that limits the performance.
Although Cai et al. [3] and Chang et al. [4], [5] have
employed column repair or bitwise ECC to correct hard or
soft errors in analog CIMs, their methods cannot be applied
to digital CIM. Typical analog CIMs complete accumulations
in bitlines first and read out values from bitlines. Similar
to SRAM, they also only need to read out one row of
bitline values in each cycle, unlike digital CIM that reads out
multiple rows simultaneously. As a result, applying column
repair is feasible for analog CIM, but incurs massive detour
logic overhead for digital CIM. Meanwhile, analog CIM’s
ECC schemes [4], [5], [7] rely on bit-level accumulation
results of each column to detect the column with variation-
induced errors. Instead of merging accumulation results of
different weight bits like analog CIM, digital CIM generates
MAC results of multi-bit weights by digital adders directly.
Therefore, there are no bit-level accumulation results of each
column in digital CIM, and existing bitwise ECC for analog
CIM cannot correct MAC errors in digital CIM. Besides, prior
analog CIM processors only consider correcting MAC errors
without memory cell error correction, as they assume that all
MAC errors are from accumulated variation. In other words,
the accumulation of all cells’ variation in a column results in
MAC errors, rather than one flipped SRAM cell causing MAC
errors in digital CIM. Digital CIM still needs to correct the
original SRAM cell after MAC error correction, and this cell
error correction topic has never been studied before.
VIII. CONCLUSION
This work proposes the first error-tolerant CIM processor
ETCIM, with comprehensive hard and soft error-tolerance
designs. The redundancy-free hard error repair flips weights
to match SRAM, revolutionizing the conventional approach
that repairs SRAM to match weights. The run-time soft error
correction suits digital CIM’s structure to correct MAC errors
and observes subsequent computation’s information to reveal
the hidden error row location. While most previous research
focuses on improving digital CIM’s energy and area efficiency,
ETCIM explores a new direction of enhancing digital CIM’s
reliability and robustness, which is critical for digital CIM’s
real deployment in commercial products. Furthermore, with
technology scaling, digital CIM is more prone to hard and
soft errors due to the decreasing yield and operating voltages.
The HER and SER also increase as CIM processors scaling
out, which is an inevitable trend driven by the dominance of
large-scale models [33]. ETCIM bridges the most crucial gap
for the commercialization of digital CIM, with its significance
bound to reach new heights in the future.
REFERENCES
[1] Adv. Micro Devices (AMD). (2020). Advanced Memory Device
Correction (AMDC) for Servers. [Online]. Available: https://www.amd.
com/content/dam/amd/en/documents/epyc-business-docs/white-papers/
advanced-memory-device-correction.pdf
Authorized licensed use limited to: University of Electronic Science and Tech of China. Downloaded on August 13,2026 at 04:11:27 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

===== PAGE 13 =====
WANG et al.: ETCIM: ERROR-TOLERANT DIGITAL CIM PROCESSOR WITH REDUNDANCY-FREE HARD ERROR REPAIR
775
[2] AnandTech. (2020). Early TSMC 5nm Test Chip Yields 80%, HVM Com-
ing in H1 2020. [Online]. Available: https://www.anandtech.com/show/
15219/early-tsmc-5nm-test-chip-yields-80-hvm-coming-in-h1-2020
[3] H. Cai et al., “33.4 a 28 nm 2Mb STT-MRAM computing-in-memory
macro with a refined bit-cell and 22.4–41.5TOPS/W for AI inference,”
in IEEE Int. Solid-State Circuits Conf. (ISSCC) Dig. Tech. Papers,
Feb. 2023, pp. 500–502.
[4] M. Chang et al., “A 73.53TOPS/W 14.74TOPS heterogeneous RRAM
in-memory and SRAM near-memory SoC for hybrid frame and event-
based target tracking,” in IEEE Int. Solid-State Circuits Conf. (ISSCC)
Dig. Tech. Papers, Feb. 2023, pp. 426–428.
[5] M. Chang et al., “A 40nm 60.64TOPS/W ECC-capable compute-in-
memory/digital 2.25MB/768KB RRAM/SRAM system with embedded
cortex M3 microprocessor for edge recommendation systems,” in IEEE
Int. Solid-State Circuits Conf. (ISSCC) Dig. Tech. Papers, vol. 65,
Feb. 2022, pp. 1–3.
[6] Y.-D. Chih et al., “16.4 an 89TOPS/W and 16.3TOPS/mm2 all-digital
SRAM-based full-precision compute-in memory macro in 22nm for
machine-learning edge applications,” in IEEE Int. Solid-State Circuits
Conf. (ISSCC) Dig. Tech. Papers, Feb. 2021, pp. 252–254.
[7] B. Crafton et al., “CIM-SECDED: A 40nm 64Kb compute in-memory
RRAM macro with ECC enabling reliable operation,” in Proc. IEEE
Asian Solid-State Circuits Conf. (A-SSCC), Nov. 2021, pp. 1–3.
[8] P. Ehlig and S. Pezzino, “Error detection in sram,” Texas Instrum.,
Dallas, TX, USA, Tech. Rep. SPRACC0A, 2017.
[9] B. Feinberg, S. Wang, and E. Ipek, “Making memristive neural network
accelerators reliable,” in Proc. IEEE Int. Symp. High Perform. Comput.
Archit. (HPCA), Aug. 2018, pp. 52–65.
[10] F. Frustaci, M. Khayatzadeh, D. Blaauw, D. Sylvester, and M. Alioto,
“13.8 a 32kb SRAM for error-free and error-tolerant applications
with dynamic energy-quality management in 28nm CMOS,” in IEEE
Int. Solid-State Circuits Conf. (ISSCC) Dig. Tech. Papers, Feb. 2014,
pp. 244–245.
[11] H. Fujiwara et al., “A 5-nm 254-TOPS/W 221-TOPS/mm2 fully-digital
computing-in-memory macro supporting wide-range dynamic-voltage-
frequency scaling and simultaneous MAC and write operations,” in
IEEE Int. Solid-State Circuits Conf. (ISSCC) Dig. Tech. Papers, vol. 65,
Feb. 2022, pp. 1–3.
[12] H. Fujiwara et al., “34.4 a 3nm, 32.5TOPS/W, 55.0TOPS/mm2
and 3.78Mb/mm2 fully-digital compute-in-memory macro supporting
INT12×INT12 with a parallel-MAC architecture and foundry 6T-
SRAM bit cell,” in IEEE Int. Solid-State Circuits Conf. (ISSCC) Dig.
Tech. Papers, Feb. 2024, pp. 572–574.
[13] W. Gul, M. Shams, and D. Al-Khalili, “SRAM cell design challenges in
modern deep sub-micron technologies: An overview,” Micromachines,
vol. 13, no. 8, p. 1332, Aug. 2022.
[14] R. W. Hamming, “Error detecting and error correcting codes,” Bell Syst.
Tech. J., vol. 29, no. 2, pp. 147–160, Apr. 1950.
[15] J. Huynh, “The AMD Athlon XP processor with 512KB L2 cache,” Adv.
Micro Devices, Inc., Sunnyvale, CA, USA, Tech. Rep. 26485A, 2003.
[16] I. Koren and Z. Koren, “Defect tolerance in VLSI circuits: Tech-
niques and yield analysis,” Proc. IEEE, vol. 86, no. 9, pp. 1819–1838,
Sep. 1998.
[17] G. Li et al., “Understanding error propagation in deep learning neural
network (DNN) accelerators and applications,” in Proc. Int. Conf. High
Perform. Comput., Netw., Storage Anal., Nov. 2017, pp. 1–12.
[18] H. Mori et al., “A 4nm 6163-TOPS/W/b 4790 −TOPS/mm2/b SRAM
based digital-computing-in-memory macro supporting bit-width flexibil-
ity and simultaneous MAC and weight update,” in IEEE Int. Solid-State
Circuits Conf. (ISSCC) Dig. Tech. Papers, Feb. 2023, pp. 132–134.
[19] NVIDIA Corp. NVIDIA GPU Memory Error Management. Accessed:
Nov. 5, 2024. [Online]. Available: https://docs.nvidia.com/deploy/a100-
gpu-mem-error-mgmt/index.html
[20] H. Pilo et al., “An SRAM design in 65 nm and 45 nm technology
nodes featuring read and write-assist circuits to expand operating
voltage,” in Proc. Symp. VLSI Circuits, Dig. Tech. Papers., Jun. 2006,
pp. 15–16.
[21] T. Song et al., “A 10 nm FinFET 128 mb SRAM with assist adjustment
system for power, performance, and area optimization,” IEEE J. Solid-
State Circuits, vol. 52, no. 1, pp. 240–249, Jan. 2017.
[22] J.-W. Su et al., “A 28 nm 384kb 6T-SRAM computation-in-memory
macro with 8b precision for AI edge chips,” in IEEE Int. Solid-
State Circuits Conf. (ISSCC) Dig. Tech. Papers, vol. 64, Jun. 2021,
pp. 250–252.
[23] M. B. Sullivan, S. K. S. Hari, B. Zimmer, T. Tsai, and S. W. Keckler,
“SwapCodes: Error codes for hardware–software cooperative GPU
pipeline error detection,” in Proc. 51st Annu. IEEE/ACM Int. Symp.
Microarchitecture (MICRO), Oct. 2018, pp. 762–774.
[24] F. Tu et al., “A 28nm 29.2TFLOPS/W BF16 and 36.5TOPS/W INT8
reconfigurable digital CIM processor with unified FP/INT pipeline
and bitwise in-memory booth multiplication for cloud deep learning
acceleration,” in IEEE Int. Solid-State Circuits Conf. (ISSCC) Dig.
Tech. Papers, vol. 65, Feb. 2022, pp. 1–3.
[25] F. Tu et al., “16.4 TensorCIM: A 28 nm 3.7nJ/Gather and 8.3TFLOPS/W
FP32 digital-CIM tensor processor for MCM-CIM-based beyond-NN
acceleration,” in IEEE Int. Solid-State Circuits Conf. (ISSCC) Dig.
Tech. Papers, Feb. 2023, pp. 254–256.
[26] F. Tu et al., “A 28nm 15.59µJ/Token full-digital bitline-transpose
CIM-based sparse transformer accelerator with pipeline/parallel recon-
figurable modes,” in IEEE Int. Solid-State Circuits Conf. (ISSCC) Dig.
Tech. Papers, vol. 65, Feb. 2022, pp. 466–468.
[27] F. Tu et al., “16.1 MuITCIM: A 28nm 2.24µJ/Token attention-token-bit
hybrid sparse digital CIM-based accelerator for multimodal transform-
ers,” in IEEE Int. Solid-State Circuits Conf. (ISSCC) Dig. Tech. Papers,
Feb. 2023, pp. 248–250.
[28] F. Frustaci, M. Khayatzadeh, D. Blaauw, D. Sylvester, and M. Alioto,
“SRAM for error-tolerant applications with dynamic energy-quality
management in 28 nm CMOS,” IEEE J. Solid-State Circuits, vol. 50,
no. 5, pp. 1310–1323, May 2015.
[29] F. Tu et al., “ReDCIM: Reconfigurable digital computing-in-memory
processor with unified FP/INT pipeline for cloud AI acceleration,” IEEE
J. Solid-State Circuits, vol. 58, no. 1, pp. 243–255, Jan. 2023.
[30] L. Wang et al., “34.9 a Flash-SRAM-ADC-Fused plastic computing-in-
memory macro for learning in neural networks in a standard 14 nm
FinFET process,” in IEEE Int. Solid-State Circuits Conf. (ISSCC) Dig.
Tech. Papers, vol. 67, Feb. 2024, pp. 582–584.
[31] Y. Wang et al., “ETCIM: An error-tolerant digital-CIM processor with
redundancy-free repair and run-time MAC and cell error correction,”
in Proc. IEEE Symp. VLSI Technol. Circuits (VLSI Technol. Circuits),
Jun. 2024, pp. 1–2.
[32] Y. Wang et al., “TensorCIM: Digital computing-in-memory tensor
processor with multichip-module-based architecture for beyond-NN
acceleration,” IEEE J. Solid-State Circuits, vol. 60, no. 2, pp. 734–747,
Feb. 2025.
[33] B. Yang, J. Chen, and F. Tu, “Towards efficient generative AI and
beyond-AI computing: New trends on ISSCC 2024 machine learn-
ing accelerators,” J. Semiconductors, vol. 45, no. 4, Apr. 2024,
Art. no. 040204.
[34] K. Yoshioka, “34.5 a 818–4094TOPS/W capacitor-reconfigured CIM
macro for unified acceleration of CNNs and transformers,” in IEEE Int.
Solid-State Circuits Conf. (ISSCC) Dig. Tech. Papers, vol. 67, Feb. 2024,
pp. 574–576.
Yiqi
Wang
(Graduate Student Member, IEEE)
received the B.S. degree from the School of Inte-
grated Circuits, Tsinghua University, Beijing, China,
in 2021, where he is currently pursuing the Ph.D.
degree.
His
research
interests
include
deep
learning,
in-memory computing, and computer architecture.
Zhen
He
(Graduate
Student
Member,
IEEE)
received the B.S. degree from Chongqing University,
Chongqing, China, in 2022. He is currently pursuing
the Ph.D. degree with the School of Integrated
Circuits, Tsinghua University, Beijing, China.
His research interests include in-memory comput-
ing, computer architecture, and fault-tolerant design.
Authorized licensed use limited to: University of Electronic Science and Tech of China. Downloaded on August 13,2026 at 04:11:27 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

===== PAGE 14 =====
776
IEEE JOURNAL OF SOLID-STATE CIRCUITS, VOL. 61, NO. 2, FEBRUARY 2026
Chenggang Zhao received the B.S. degree from the
Department of Computer Science and Technology,
Tsinghua University, Beijing, China, in 2021, where
he is currently pursuing the M.S. degree with the
Institute for Interdisciplinary Information Sciences.
His research interests include computer architec-
ture, tensor compiler, and GPU kernel optimization.
Zihan Wu received the M.S. degree from the School
of Integrated Circuits, Tsinghua University, Beijing,
China, in 2023, where he is currently pursuing the
Ph.D. degree.
His research interests include in-memory comput-
ing, computer architecture, and deep learning.
Mingyu Gao received the B.S. degree in microelec-
tronics from Tsinghua University, Beijing, China,
and the M.Sc. and Ph.D. degrees in electrical engi-
neering from Stanford University, Stanford, CA,
USA.
He is currently an Assistant Professor of com-
puter science with the Institute for Interdisciplinary
Information Sciences (IIIS), Tsinghua University.
His research interests lie in the fields of computer
architecture and systems, including efficient memory
architectures, scalable data processing, and hardware
system security.
Huiming Han received the B.S. degree from the
School of Electronic and Information Engineering,
Hebei University of Technology, Tianjin, China,
in 2005.
He is currently a Senior Engineer with Tsinghua
University, Beijing, China. His research interests
include circuit design, compilation optimization, and
intelligent computing chip systems.
Shaojun Wei (Fellow, IEEE) was born in Beijing,
China, in 1958. He received the Ph.D. degree
from the Faculte Polytechnique de Mons, Mons,
Belgium, in 1991.
He is currently a Professor with the School
of
Integrated
Circuits,
Tsinghua
University,
Beijing.
His
main
research
interests
include
VLSI
system-on-chip
(SoC)
design,
Electronic
Design
Automation
(EDA)
methodology,
and
communication
application-specified
integrated
circuit (ASIC) design.
Dr. Wei is a Senior Member of Chinese Institute of Electronics (CIE).
Yang Hu (Member, IEEE) received the B.S. degree
from Tianjin University, Tianjin, China, in 2007,
the M.S. degree from Tsinghua University, Beijing,
China, in 2011, and the Ph.D. degree from the Uni-
versity of Florida, Gainesville, FL, USA, in 2017.
He was an Assistant Professor with the ECE
Department, The University of Texas at Dallas,
Richardson, TX, USA, from 2017 to 2021. He is
currently an Associate Professor with the School of
Integrated Circuits, Tsinghua University.
Fengbin Tu (Member, IEEE) received the B.S.
degree from the School of Electronic Engineering,
Beijing University of Posts and Telecommunica-
tions, Beijing, China, in 2013, and the Ph.D. degree
from the Institute of Microelectronics, Tsinghua
University, Beijing, in 2019.
He was a Post-Doctoral Scholar with the Scalable
Energy-Efficient Architecture Laboratory (SEAL),
Department of Electrical and Computer Engineer-
ing, University of California at Santa Barbara,
Santa Barbar, CA, USA, from 2019 to 2022, and
a Post-Doctoral Fellow with the AI Chip Center for Emerging Smart Systems
(ACCESS), Hong Kong, China, from 2022 to 2023. He is currently an
Assistant Professor with the Department of Electronic and Computer Engi-
neering, The Hong Kong University of Science and Technology, Hong Kong,
and also the Associate Director of the Institute of Integrated Circuits and
Systems. He has published two books: Architecture Design and Memory
Optimization for Neural Network Accelerators and Artificial Intelligence
Chip Design. His research interests include artificial intelligence (AI) chip,
computing-in-memory, computer architecture, and reconfigurable computing.
Dr. Tu was a recipient of Tsinghua Excellent Dissertation Award for his
Ph.D. thesis. His AI chips Thinker and ReDCIM won the 2017 ISLPED
Design Contest Award and 2023 Top-10 Research Advances in China Semi-
conductors, respectively.
Shouyi Yin (Fellow, IEEE) received the B.S., M.S.,
and Ph.D. degrees in electronic engineering from
Tsinghua University, Beijing, China, in 2000, 2002,
and 2005, respectively.
He has worked as a Research Associate with
Imperial College, London, U.K. He is currently a
Full Professor and the Vice Director of the School
of Integrated Circuits, Tsinghua University. He has
published more than 100 journal articles and more
than 50 conference papers. His research interests
include reconfigurable computing, artificial intelli-
gence (AI) processors, and high-level synthesis.
Dr. Yin has served as a Technical Program Committee Member for the
top VLSI and electronic design automation (EDA) conferences such as A-
SSCC, MICRO, DAC, ICCAD, and ASP-DAC. He is an Associate Editor of
IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON CIRCUITS AND SYSTEMS I: REGULAR PAPERS
(TCAS-I), ACM Transactions on Reconfigurable Technology and Systems
(TRETS) and Integration, and IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON VERY LARGE
SCALE INTEGRATION (VLSI) SYSTEMS.
Authorized licensed use limited to: University of Electronic Science and Tech of China. Downloaded on August 13,2026 at 04:11:27 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
