===== PAGE 1 =====
IEEE JOURNAL OF SOLID-STATE CIRCUITS, VOL. 60, NO. 2, FEBRUARY 2025
695
A Multiply-Less Approximate SRAM
Compute-In-Memory Macro for
Neural-Network Inference
Haikang Diao , Graduate Student Member, IEEE, Yifan He, Graduate Student Member, IEEE, Xuan Li,
Chen Tang , Graduate Student Member, IEEE, Wenbin Jia, Jinshan Yue , Member, IEEE,
Haoyang Luo , Graduate Student Member, IEEE, Jiahao Song , Member, IEEE,
Xueqing Li , Senior Member, IEEE, Huazhong Yang , Hongyang Jia , Member, IEEE,
Yongpan Liu , Senior Member, IEEE, Yuan Wang , Member, IEEE, and Xiyuan Tang , Senior Member, IEEE
Abstract— Compute-in-memory (CIM) is promising in reduc-
ing data movement energy and providing large bandwidth for
matrix-vector multiplies (MVMs). However, existing work still
faces various challenges, such as the digital logic overhead
caused by the multiply-add operations (OPs) and structural
sparsity. This article presents a 2-to-8-b scalable approximate
digital SRAM-based CIM macro co-designed with a multiply-less
neural network (NN) approach. It incorporates dynamic-logic-
based approximate circuits for the logic area and energy saving
by eliminating multiplications. A prototype is fabricated in
28-nm CMOS technology and achieves peak multiply-accumulate
(MAC)-level energy efficiency of 102 TOPS/W for 8-b operations.
The NN model deployment flow is used to demonstrate CIFAR-10
and ImageNet classification with ResNet-20 and ResNet-50 style
multiply-less models, respectively, achieving the accuracy of
91.74% and 74.8% with 8-bit weights and activations.
Index Terms— Compute-in-memory (CIM), dynamic logic,
multiply-less approximate, neural network (NN) inference.
I. INTRODUCTION
A
RTIFICIAL intelligence based on neural network (NN)
has enabled various emerging applications, ranging from
the edge to cloud computing, such as computer vision,
Manuscript received 19 December 2023; revised 4 June 2024; accepted
17 July 2024. Date of publication 5 August 2024; date of current version
30 January 2025. This article was approved by Associate Editor Jie Gu. This
work was supported in part by the Beijing Natural Science Foundation under
Grant L244051, in part by the Beijing Major Science and Technology Project
under Grant Z241100004224004, in part by the National Natural Science
Foundation of China under Grant 62304009, and in part by the 111 Project
under Grant B18001. (Corresponding author: Xiyuan Tang.)
Haikang Diao, Haoyang Luo, and Xiyuan Tang are with the Institute
for Artificial Intelligence and the School of Integrated Circuits, Peking
University, Beijing 100871, China (e-mail: diaohaikang@stu.pku.edu.cn;
xitang@pku.edu.cn).
Yifan
He,
Chen
Tang,
Wenbin
Jia,
Xueqing
Li,
Huazhong
Yang,
Hongyang Jia, and Yongpan Liu are with the Department of Electronic
Engineering, Tsinghua University, Beijing 100084, China.
Xuan Li is with the Department of Electronic Engineering, Tsinghua
University, Beijing 100084, China, and also with Wiener Technology, Beijing
100080, China.
Jinshan Yue is with the Institute of Microelectronics of the Chinese
Academy of Sciences, Beijing 100029, China.
Jiahao Song is with the Institute for Neural Computation (INC), University
of California at San Diego, La Jolla, CA 92093 USA.
Yuan Wang is with the School of Integrated Circuits, Peking University,
Beijing 100871, China.
Color versions of one or more figures in this article are available at
https://doi.org/10.1109/JSSC.2024.3433417.
Digital Object Identifier 10.1109/JSSC.2024.3433417
Fig. 1.
Difference between Von Neumann architecture and CIM.
language processing, and molecular discovery for scientific
applications [1], [2], [3], [4]. A key attribute of those appli-
cations is that they heavily rely on computation with huge
data, such as high-dimensional matrices and tensors. Thus,
the efficiency and performance of the NN inference, which is
dominated by matrix-vector multiplies (MVMs), are limited by
the memory access and I/O bandwidth [5]. However, due to
the high-dimensionality computation in MVMs, Von Neumann
architecture-based computing platforms are not well adapted to
NN inference. A new hardware solution needs to be proposed
to advance modern AI development.
As shown in Fig. 1, computing-in-memory addresses this
limitation by incorporating the processing unit into mem-
ory cells to perform basic operations (OPs) locally [6],
[7], [8], [9], [10], [11], [12], [13], [14], [15], [16], [17],
[18], [19], [20], [21], [22], [23], [24], [25], [26]. Thus, the
MVMs can be finished efficiently due to reduced weight
movement. Moreover, multiple rows can be activated simul-
taneously in parallel based on the input vector to provide
large bandwidth. Analog compute-in-memory (CIM) imple-
ment multiply-accumulate (MAC) in current [6], [7], [8], [9],
[27] and charge domains [10], [11], [12], [13]. They are
distinguished by circuit structures that perform multiplication
and dimension reduction operations. The current-domain CIM
relies on the summation of modulated currents through the
bit-cell transistors. Although achieving high density, it suf-
fers from nonidealities like transistors PVT variations. The
charge-domain CIM realizes multiplication by the precharg-
ing of capacitors and accumulation by charge redistribution.
However, both solutions require ADCs for circuit readout,
0018-9200 © 2024 IEEE. Personal use is permitted, but republication/redistribution requires IEEE permission.
See https://www.ieee.org/publications/rights/index.html for more information.
Authorized licensed use limited to: University of Electronic Science and Tech of China. Downloaded on August 13,2026 at 04:02:35 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

===== PAGE 2 =====
696
IEEE JOURNAL OF SOLID-STATE CIRCUITS, VOL. 60, NO. 2, FEBRUARY 2025
significantly increasing the power and area consumption, espe-
cially with higher bit-widths.
Digital CIM is proposed recently [14], [15], [16], [17],
[18], [19], [20], [21], [22]. It performs multiplication and
dimension reduction by digital logic, offering exceeding
robustness and easier architectural integration. The first work
to present digital CIM, as detailed in [16], adopts hybrid
adders to support full-precision MAC operations and enhance
efficiency. After that, the 12-T SRAM design is implemented
in 5-nm technology with the support of simultaneous write
and CIM operations [17]. Then, the dynamic logic is
introduced for various types of bit-wise operations with
reduced circuit area [20]. However, the multipliers and adder
trees adopted in digital CIM consume a significant area and
energy, limiting their performance.
To
reduce
digital
circuit
costs,
recent
works
have
started to incorporate approximate computation. For example,
an approximate digital CIM macro that uses OR/AND digital
logic circuits to replace multiple levels of adders in the
adder tree is proposed in [15]. It reduces the transistor count
of digital circuits by 56%. Nevertheless, this approximation
results in a 3.5% accuracy loss on the Cifar-10 dataset, limiting
its usage in advanced applications. As a result, the current
approximate digital CIM design improves area and energy
efficiency at the cost of accuracy.
In addition to using approximations to reduce the compu-
tation cost in digital CIM, the block- and data-level sparsity
is also exploited to reduce the number of computations for
further energy efficiency boost [21], [22]. However, it requires
extra sparse training, together with additional hardware, to pro-
cess this coarse-gain sparse information.
This work proposes an approximate digital CIM macro
co-designed with a multiply-less NN approach, incorporat-
ing an architecture design dedicated to multiply-less NN,
an L1-distance computing scheme, and dynamic-logic-based
approximate circuits for multiply-less NN inference. Com-
pared to prior designs, this work employs co-optimization from
the algorithm to the circuit level, reducing the approximation
loss for NN inference. The primary contributions of this work
are listed as follows.
1) This work proposed an efficient architecture for a
multiply-less NN that approximates dot products with
L1-distance of vectors to save area and energy consump-
tion caused by multiplication.
2) This work proposed an L1-distance computing scheme
that reformates bit-parallel absolute-difference operators
in the L1 compute into bit-serial comparisons and guar-
antees linear area/energy scaling with bit precision.
3) This work proposed a dynamic-logic-based compara-
tor design with early weight-bit-readout stopping that
exploits unstructured bit statistics. Compared to the
conventional static logic-based design, the proposed
dynamic
design
further
reduces
area
and
energy
consumption.
In addition, an NN model deployment flow is proposed
to implement the custom off-line posttraining quantization
adapted to chip architecture. Multiple representative NN
benchmarks are demonstrated on the chip, achieving accura-
cies equivalent to ideal digital computation.
This article is an extension of [19] with an improved
dynamic-logic-based comparator design. The improved com-
parator greatly reduces the comparison error rate and improves
the accuracy of NN inference. This design was fabricated,
measured, and compared with [19]. The rest of this article
is organized as follows. Section II discusses the challenges
of approximate digital CIM. Section III outlines the effi-
cient architecture for multiply-less NN algorithms. Section IV
describes the efficient computing scheme for adder-based
approximation. Section V presents the efficient comparator
circuits with dynamic logic. Section VI presents the prototype
measurements and NN demonstrations. The conclusion is
drawn in Section VII.
II. CHALLENGES OF APPROXIMATE DIGITAL CIM
The first challenge is the computational error introduced
by circuit-level approximation. Fig. 2(a) shows the two
circuit-level approximation methods for the adder tree: the
OR-only approximation and the interleaved OR/AND approxi-
mation [15]. Both approaches use simple logic gates to replace
multiple levels of adders in the adder tree. S1, S2, and S3
denote the approximation of adders with single/double/triple
stages in adder tree. For example, S2 indicates that a four-input
logic gate is used instead of a two-stage adder to achieve
four-input summation. However, the errors introduced by the
approximate computation degrade the NN accuracy as effi-
ciency increases. Unlike the previous circuit-level approxima-
tion, this work incorporates algorithmic-level approximation
to reduce errors for better NN inference accuracy.
The second challenge is the quadratic cost of multiplications
introduced by the expansion of bit-widths in digital CIM with
input bit-level parallelism. Although bit-serial digital CIMs
reduce this cost by simplifying multipliers to NOR gates [16],
it requires greatly increased compute cycles. As shown in
Fig. 2(b), the area-cycle product, an area efficiency indi-
cator, increases quadratically with bit-widths, regardless of
bit-parallel or bit-serial operations. This quadratic-growth mul-
tiplication cost limits further area efficiency improvements for
digital CIM. To overcome this limitation, this work imple-
ments NN inference using multiply-less matrix-vector opera-
tions, ensuring a linear area/energy scaling with bit-widths.
The third challenge falls into the insufficient usage of
bit-level sparsity of NN models. Several works have proposed
sparsity-aware designs for energy efficiency improvement.
Their works focus on the block or data level sparsity. In [21]
and [24], consecutive zeros in the weights or activations can
be skipped during computation by gating the corresponding
readout circuits. Compared to the coarse-grained sparsity,
as shown in Fig. 2(c), the NN model naturally shows higher
finer-grain sparsity at the bit-level. Specifically, in a typical
convolutional NN (CNN) layer without sparse-aware training,
the bit-level statistics show an unbalanced binary distribution
leaning heavily to zero, which has not been fully exploited in
previous digital CIMs due to the tight and structural memory
layout. To leverage the sparsity of the bit-level distribution,
this work designs specialized circuits and NN deployment
Authorized licensed use limited to: University of Electronic Science and Tech of China. Downloaded on August 13,2026 at 04:02:35 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

===== PAGE 3 =====
DIAO et al.: MULTIPLY-LESS APPROXIMATE SRAM COMPUTE-IN-MEMORY MACRO FOR NN INFERENCE
697
Fig. 2.
Three challenges of approximate digital CIM. (a) Approximation error by circuit-level approximation. (b) Degraded gains due to multiplications at
high bit-widths. (c) Insufficient use of bit-level sparsity.
Fig. 3.
Example for AdderNet kernel: achieves similar output without
multiplication.
dataflow for further energy reduction. This design does not
require specialized sparse training to adapt the dataflow, and
the versatility is improved.
III. EFFICIENT ARCHITECTURE FOR MULTIPLY-LESS
NEURAL NETWORK ALGORITHM
A. Background of Multiply-Less NN Algorithm
To mitigate the large area and cycle penalty of multiplication
in deep learning inference, recent algorithms start to explore
all addition NN layers. For example, AdderNet replaces tra-
ditional convolutional kernels with adder-based kernels [28],
[29], [30], [31], [32], [33]. It uses the L1-distance to replace
the dot-product between weights and activations
Y(m, n, t)=−
d
X
i=0
d
X
j=0
cin
X
k=0
|X(m + i, n + j, k)−W(I, j, k, t)|.
(1)
The expressive power of L1-distance operations was quan-
titatively analyzed. A formula derivation in [34] shows that
L1-distance has the same approximation capacity as tradi-
tional CNN. As shown in Fig. 3, both ConvNet kernel and
AdderNet kernel can detect and strengthen the diagonal edge
in the input feature map. Fig. 4 shows the similarity between
AdderNet and CNN kernels. When the weight unit vector is
fixed and the input unit vector is rotated, the results of the
dot-product and L1-distance demonstrate similarity. Therefore,
for NN inference, the CNN kernel can be approximated by
the AdderNet kernel and the hardware design of AdderNet
Fig. 4.
Similarity between ConvNet (MAC) and AdderNet (L1-distance).
TABLE I
PERFORMANCE COMPARISON OF CONVNETS AND ADDERNETS
can benefit from this simple computation. Table I shows the
inference performance of ConvNets and AdderNets, and the
effectiveness of AdderNet has been validated on different
models such as CNN and transformer, and different tasks such
as image classification and object detection [28], [29], [30],
[31], [32], showing comparable performance and scalability to
traditional CNN.
B. Architecture for Approximate Compute
The macro architecture for approximate computation is
shown in Fig. 5, with three features highlighted in different
colors. It comprises 16 Digital Approximate CIM Arrays for
L1-distance-based approximate MVMs, an activation buffer
(ACT buffer) for receiving and sequencing activations to the
CIM array, an activation accumulator (ActACCU) for 128 acti-
vation accumulation per cycle, a standard SRAM read/write
interface controller, and other peripherals for CIM control.
Each digital approximate CIM array contains 8 (rows) ×
128 (columns) 8T-SRAM array for NN weights storage,
natively supporting input vector dimension of 128, and
Authorized licensed use limited to: University of Electronic Science and Tech of China. Downloaded on August 13,2026 at 04:02:35 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

===== PAGE 4 =====
698
IEEE JOURNAL OF SOLID-STATE CIRCUITS, VOL. 60, NO. 2, FEBRUARY 2025
Fig. 5.
Overall architecture of multiply-less approximate CIM macro.
Fig. 6.
(a) Conventional L1-distance computing scheme. (b) Recalcula-
tion-based L1-distance computing scheme.
2-to-8-b precision. The SRAM array is associated with
an L1 computate unit for comparison-based computation.
The L1 computate unit contains minimum-value selection
(MinSEL), absolute-value-assembly unit (ABS-ASM), and
minimum-value accumulator (MinACCU), using bit-serial
dataflow to enable linear bit-scaling cost and leverage
bit-distribution. The MinSEL contains an improved dynamic-
logic-based approximate bit-serial comparator and minimum-
value-multiplexer (MinMUX), which are used to implement
the dynamic-logic comparison.
IV. COMPUTE SCHEME FOR ADDER-
BASED APPROXIMATION
A. Precalcultion-Based L1-Distance Compute Scheme
The L1-distance computing consists of three steps: sub-
traction of weights and activations, taking absolute values,
and accumulation. The conventional L1-distance computing
scheme is shown in Fig. 6(a), which uses two multibit adders
and a multiplex to calculate the absolute difference between
weights and activations [35]. Although the overhead of these
digital logics is reduced compared to dot-product, the multibit
adders still limit the area efficiency. Moreover, due to the
absolute values required before accumulation, a bit-serial
computing scheme would not be available, making it difficult
to exploit the sparsity of the bit distribution.
In this article, we proposed an efficient precalculation-
based L1-distance compute scheme that is employed in digital
Fig. 7.
Weight sparsity gains due to the precomputation.
approximate CIM Array. It simplifies the conventional abso-
lute difference computation to a simple minimum selection.
As shown in Fig. 6(b), the absolute value of the L1-distance
can be expanded and rewritten as a summation of activations
and weights, and a minimum selection between activations
and weights. In the new expression, the summation of weights
(WSUM), P wi, is stationary and can be precomputed during
model compilation and stored locally using additional columns
in each SRAM bank, consuming only 15 additional SRAM
cells. While the summation of activations, P xi, is handled
by a dedicated ActACCU succeeding the ACT Buffer, whose
result is shared across all 16 digital approximate CIM arrays to
amortize the extra computation costs. Last, only the minimum
summation, 2 P min(xi, wi), needs to be computed by the
L1 compute unit. Comparing with the conventional absolute
difference computation, the proposed design achieves 1.5×
area reduction by replacing the subtraction and absolute value
with comparison.
Another benefit of the precomputation is that it significantly
improves the effective sparsity of the weight tensor stored
in the macro. The nonnegative character of the rectified
linear unit (ReLU)-based activations enables the truncation of
negative weights to zero in the minimum selection function
X
|xi −wi| =
X
|xi −clamp(wi, 0, wmax)| +
X
|wi|. (2)
The equivalent calculation is achieved by merging the trun-
cated weights into the WSUM. Fig. 7 shows the weight
sparsity gain due to the precomputation. For the ResNet-20
style multiply-less model on the Cifar-10 dataset, the sparsity
of the weights is increased by 86× with precomputation
compared to that of the original model. Higher sparsity can
effectively reduce the activity factor in the L1 compute unit,
reducing the power consumption of comparison operations.
Moreover, as the weights and activations are nonnegative, sign
bits or complements are not required. Therefore, the bit-widths
are reduced, and the circuit design is simplified.
B. Bit-Serial Comparison Scheme
The circuit-level design and bit-serial computation of L1
compute unit are shown in Fig. 8. The L1 compute unit sums
the minimum values and then combines the sum of mini-
mum values, the sum of weights, and the sum of activations
(P xi) using an ABS-ASM. The bit-serial dataflow is adopted
Authorized licensed use limited to: University of Electronic Science and Tech of China. Downloaded on August 13,2026 at 04:02:35 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

===== PAGE 5 =====
DIAO et al.: MULTIPLY-LESS APPROXIMATE SRAM COMPUTE-IN-MEMORY MACRO FOR NN INFERENCE
699
Fig. 8.
Circuit-level design and bit-serial computation of L1 compute unit.
to support different bit-width in the L1 compute unit. The
activations are serially sent into the macro in the MSB-first
manner. After the ACT Buffer, the activations will be shared
between ActACCU and 16 digital approximate CIM arrays.
The ActACCU shifts and accumulates one bit of activations
per cycle, and broadcasts the result to different L1 compute
units. The weight SRAM bank contains a 128 × 8 SRAM bit
cells subarray and 15 extra SRAM bits for weight sum. The
RWL decoder selects the weight bit in the MSB-first manner,
in the same order as the activations input. The corresponding
weights and activations are sent to the Improved Comparator
for the comparison result.
The output of the comparison results controls the precharg-
ing of the SRAM read port for early stopping. Thus, it reduces
the power consumption of the SRAM reading. More details
will be provided in Section IV-C. Moreover, the comparison
results also control the transmission gate in MinMUX to select
the minimum of the weights and activations. Fig. 8 shows
the circuit-level details of the MinMUX. The OUT and OUT
nodes represent the result of the bit-serial comparison. Initially,
OUT is precharged to VDD, and OUT is discharged to VSS.
MinMUX passes the weight bit until the comparison result is
determined. If the minimum value is the weight, then OUT and
OUT are fixed, and MinMUX will keep passing the weight bit
until all bits are compared. In contrast, if the minimum value
is activation, OUT is discharged to VSS and OUT is charged
to VDD, and the MinMUX will keep passing the activation
bit.
The outputs of MinMUX are sent to the MinACCU, which
shares the same structure as ActACCU, for the summation of
the minimum values. Both the ActACCU and MinACCU have
clock-gated output to reduce the output activity. The P wi are
read out in parallel from the internal nodes of the WSUM
SRAM bit cells. Finally, the ABS-ASM collects the output
from the ActACCU (P xi), MinACCU [2 P min(xi, wi)], and
the WSUM SRAM (P wi) to generate the partial sums.
Fig. 9.
Schematic of the specialized local SRAM read port.
Fig. 10.
(a) Early weight-readout stopping mechanism. (b) Read port energy
saving for the early stop.
C. Sparse-Aware Comparison With Early Stop
The bit-serial minimal selection scheme gives us opportu-
nities to benefit from bit-level distribution. Fig. 9 shows the
circuit-level details for the read port of 8T SRAM, which
contains a specialized local SRAM read port. When the
selected weight bit is “0,” the local read bitline will be
maintained at the precharged voltage. Therefore, when the bit
distribution of weights contains consecutive “0,” it will reduce
the power consumption of SRAM reading. As mentioned
above, by truncating the weights of negative values to zero
in the precomputation process, the number of “0” in the bit
distribution of the weights is substantially increased, and the
power consumption of the SRAM reading is further reduced.
In addition, once the activation is selected, OUT is charged
to VDD. The read port stops the repetitive precharging of the
local read bitline, allowing an early stopping to reduce power
consumption. As shown in Fig. 10(a), the weight bits, which
are colored blue, do not need to be precharged and read again.
In the later cycles, the MinMUX directly outputs the activation
bits to the MinACCU. As shown in Fig. 10(b), with the special
design of the read port, the power consumption of the circuit
can be reduced by 1.8×.
V. ENERGY EFFICIENT COMPARATOR DESIGN
A. Improved Dynamic-Logic-Based Bit-Serial Comparator
As shown in Fig. 11(a), the improved dynamic-logic-based
approximate bit-serial comparator (Improved Comparator) for
bit-serial comparison is proposed to improve the energy
efficiency. C1 and C2 are parasitic capacitors under nodes
between N4, N6, and N8. The output nodes OUT and OUTB
are precharged to VDD by RESETB at the initial state. If the
Authorized licensed use limited to: University of Electronic Science and Tech of China. Downloaded on August 13,2026 at 04:02:35 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

===== PAGE 6 =====
700
IEEE JOURNAL OF SOLID-STATE CIRCUITS, VOL. 60, NO. 2, FEBRUARY 2025
Fig. 11.
(a) Schematic of the improved comparator. (b) State transition table
for improved comparator. (c) Waveform for comparison operation.
activation and weight bits are equal in the current cycle, the
OUT and OUTB hold the charge and pass the equal state to
the next cycle. Once the comparison is asserted, one node is
discharged to VSS, and the other is pinned to the VDD level
through P3 or P4. Specifically, OUT will be discharged to
VSS when the weight is smaller, and conversely, OUTB will
be discharged when the activation is smaller. Compared to the
original comparator design in [19], the improved comparator
in this article only exchanges the positions of ACT and WB,
but significantly reduces the comparison error rate. This will
be analyzed in detail in Section V-B. Fig. 11(b) summarizes
the state transition truth table for the improved comparator.
Fig. 11(c) presents an example of the comparison operation.
First, RESETB is set to VSS to precharge OUT and OUTB
nodes. After that, RESETB is set to VDD until all bits are
compared. Second, activations and weights are serially sent to
the improved comparator for dynamic comparisons. Note that
each time the RBL is precharged to read the weights stored in
the SRAM, the RBL voltage is changed, affecting the W and
WB in the improved comparator. Therefore, during this phase,
SAEN needs to be discharged to VSS to prevent the voltage
change of the RBL from incorrect comparison results. Finally,
when the comparison asserted (ACT < W) in the second bit of
the weight and activation, OUT connects to VDD, and OUTB
connects to VSS. After that, the voltages of OUTB and OUT
will remain constant until all the bits have been compared.
As a comparison, a bit-serial static-logic-based comparator
is designed by the digital flow design (Verilog coding in
VS Code, digital synthesis by Design Compiler, and digital
backend by Innovus), and its area and power consumption
are postlayout simulated using virtuoso. As shown in Fig. 12,
compared to the conventional static-logic-based comparator,
the improved comparator reduces the area and power by 1.7×
and 4.1×, respectively.
Fig. 12.
Area and energy comparison between the static-logic-based
comparator and the dynamic-logic-based comparator.
Fig. 13.
Comparison errors for the comparator in [19] and improved
comparator.
B. Error Analysis for Dynamic Comparator
As discussed, the proposed improved comparator can reduce
the potential accuracy loss caused by the original comparator
design [19]. To fully understand this mechanism, the error
source of the comparator in [19] is first analyzed. The original
design suffers from the charge-sharing problem, especially
when the activation and weight bits are both “1” for multiple
cycles. Fig. 13 shows an example of comparison errors. First,
the OUT and OUTB nodes are precharged to VDD by setting
RESETB to VSS. For the first bit, ACT and W are both
“1,” and ACTB and WB are both “0.” Thus, N7 and N8 are
turned on, and N5 and N6 are turned off. When the first-bit
comparison is performed, SAEN is charged to VDD. Since
both N4 and N6 are turned on, parasitic capacitors C1 and
C2 are performed charge-sharing with OUT, resulting in a
large voltage drop at OUT. After that, when reading the second
bit of the weights, the RBL is precharged to VDD and SAEN
is discharged to VSS, causing N8 to be turned on and N4 to
be turned off. This results in the C1 and C2 nodes being
discharged to VSS. Notice that when it performs the second-
bit comparison, C1 and C2 are performed charge sharing
with OUT again, resulting in a continuous voltage drop at
Authorized licensed use limited to: University of Electronic Science and Tech of China. Downloaded on August 13,2026 at 04:02:35 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

===== PAGE 7 =====
DIAO et al.: MULTIPLY-LESS APPROXIMATE SRAM COMPUTE-IN-MEMORY MACRO FOR NN INFERENCE
701
Fig. 14.
(a) Chip micrograph. (b) Test platform.
OUT. According to the simulation, after three consecutive
comparisons, a comparison error occurs.
This article proposed an improved comparator to reduce
the voltage drop at OUT by exchanging the positions of
ACT and WB. Specifically, when the first-bit comparison is
performed, N4 is turned on, and N6 is turned off, and only
C1 is performed charge-sharing with OUT, resulting in less
voltage drop at OUT. As shown in Fig. 13, the error does not
occur until after six consecutive comparisons. Thus, compared
with [19], the comparator proposed in this work can reduce
the voltage drop due to charge sharing, which in turn largely
reduces the comparison error rate.
To summarize, the comparison may be contaminated when
the number of high ACT-W pairs exceeds a threshold. This
approximation error can be avoided by regularizing the max-
imum number of “1”s in activations during NN inference,
with lower bits truncated. The proposed improved comparator
relaxes the activation regulation compared to the original
design in [19], thus improving the application accuracy, which
will be explained in detail in Section VI-A.
VI. MEASUREMENT RESULTS
A. Chip Micrograph and Summary
Fig. 14(a) presents the die photograph and summarizes
the chip measurement results. Same as in [19], this chip is
Fig. 15.
(a) Voltage–frequency scaling. (b) Voltage scaling of 8-bit energy
efficiency. (c) Bit scaling of energy efficiency.
fabricated in 28-nm CMOS technology the CIM macro with an
area of 0.028 mm2. Fig. 14(b) demonstrates the test platform
for the fabricated chip. The test chip is wire bonded to a
SODIMM-profile adapter board and connected to the host PC
for verification and measurements through an FPGA bridge.
A customized compiler on the PC side generates instructions
and data for chip configuration and execution. A current meter
is inserted between the power supply and the test board for
energy measurements.
As shown in Fig. 15(a), the voltage scaling of the chip is
measured from 0.54 to 0.9 V. The operating frequency ranges
from 20 to 240 MHz. The peak performance for 8-bit computa-
tion reaches 0.122 TOPS at 0.9 V, running at 240 MHz. Note
that the calculation of throughput is different from the dot-
product-based NN chips. In our multiply-less NN chip, a pair
of comparisons and accumulation of one activation and one
Authorized licensed use limited to: University of Electronic Science and Tech of China. Downloaded on August 13,2026 at 04:02:35 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

===== PAGE 8 =====
702
IEEE JOURNAL OF SOLID-STATE CIRCUITS, VOL. 60, NO. 2, FEBRUARY 2025
Fig. 16.
Energy and area breakdown of test-chip.
Fig. 17. Error rate from improved comparator and original comparator design
in [19].
weight is counted as two OPs. Since the bit-serial comparison
scheme is adopted, it takes eight clock cycles to complete
the two OPs. Fig. 15(b) presents the voltage scaling of 8-bit
computation energy efficiency with different input sparsity.
The highest energy efficiency is 102 TOPS/W at 0.54 V,
20 MHz, 10% input sparsity, and 50% weight sparsity, which
is the same as in [19]. The bit scaling of energy efficiency at
0.9 V with different input sparsity is shown in Fig. 15(c). The
linear bit scaling at higher bit-widths for energy efficiency
demonstrates that the multiply-less digital CIM macro can
overcome limitations imposed by the quadratic computational
cost in the conventional MAC digital CIM macro.
Fig. 16 shows the energy breakdown of the entire macro
at 0.9 V, including the control and clock buffer with 50%
input and weight sparsity. The power breakdown shows that
the L1 compute unit, which contains MinSEL, MinACCU,
ActACCU, and ABS-ASM, consumes 40% overall energy. The
area breakdown shows the L1 compute unit consumes 59%
area. The area consumption of the SRAM banks, MinSEL,
and ActACCU are almost identical, indicating that the area
overhead of digital circuits is effectively reduced.
As mentioned, the charge-sharing problem, caused by the
high ACT-W pairs, leads to comparison errors in the dynamic
logic. We tested the comparator extensively and repeated
them on different chips, the results of which are shown
in Fig. 17. When the voltage is 0.54 V, the comparison
error starts from six high ACT-W values. When the voltage
Fig. 18.
(a) NN model deployment flow. (b) NN mapping method.
TABLE II
NN DEMONSTRATIONS
exceeds 0.65 V, there is no comparison error. In contrast,
the comparison error in [19] starts from two high ACT-W
values and has a much higher error rate than this work.
It firmly confirms that the proposed comparator in this article
significantly improves the comparison accuracy. To alleviate
this approximation error, we regularize the maximum number
of “1”s in activations to 5 with lower bits truncated. The
regularization is performed during NN inference with the help
of potential element-wise digital peripherals. For example, the
original activation is 63 (binary code: 00111111); after regu-
larization, it becomes 62 (binary code: 00111110). Compared
to regularizing the maximum number of “1”s to 3 in [19],
this work reduces the number of activations that need to be
regularized, thus reducing the regularization loss. For example,
compared to [19] where 15% of the activations need to be
regularized for ResNet-20 model, this work requires only
0.9% of the activations to be regularized, thus enabling higher
accuracy inference.
B. Evaluation on Multiply-Less Neural Network
1) NN Model Deployment Flow: The macro architecture
is co-designed with software mapping algorithms. To better
Authorized licensed use limited to: University of Electronic Science and Tech of China. Downloaded on August 13,2026 at 04:02:35 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

===== PAGE 9 =====
DIAO et al.: MULTIPLY-LESS APPROXIMATE SRAM COMPUTE-IN-MEMORY MACRO FOR NN INFERENCE
703
TABLE III
COMPARISON WITH STATE-OF-THE-ART WORKS
outline the model deployment flow, Fig. 18(a) shows the
custom off-line posttraining quantization toolchain for NN
models used in this work. First, a floating-point multiply-
less pretrained model is obtained using the standard training
flow by PyTorch. Second, the negative weights are clamped
to [0, wmax] and merged to the WSUM, as mentioned in
Section IV-A. Third, unlike the separate scaling factor for
CNN, the multiply-less model requires the same scaling fac-
tors for activations and weights to perform the comparison.
Meanwhile, more than 95% of weights and activations are in
the range of 2−5–23 [35]. Therefore, a shared scaling factor
for activations and weights quantization method is proposed
to achieve the 8-bit quantization. Then, the activations are
regularized with the maximum number of “1”s to 5, with lower
bits truncated, to meet the needs of the improved comparator.
Finally, the generated quantized model is deployed to the
test chip for evaluation. Notably, this flow uses posttraining
quantization without complex model retraining, which benefits
various edge AI applications.
Given the relatively small size of the chip array, a layer-
by-layer NN mapping method is adopted. During each layer’s
computation, as shown in Fig. 18(b), the 16 columns store
the weights of 16 output channels, with each column storing
the 128 weights of different input channels. During inference
computation, 128 inputs are fed into the digital CIM macro and
computed in parallel with the weights from the 16 columns.
After eight clock cycles of comparison and accumulation,
16 Psum results are obtained.
2) NN Performance: Using this model deployment flow,
several multiply-less models have been demonstrated on the
prototype. Two models are presented as examples, including
a ResNet-20 style multiply-less model for the CIFAR-10
dataset and a ResNet-50 style multiply-less model for the Ima-
geNet dataset. In these models, the convolution multiplication
is replaced by the L1-distance computation. As mentioned,
we need to regularize the maximum number of “1”s in
activations to 5 with lower bits truncated. Table II summarizes
the results of these two benchmarks. The 8-bit ResNet-20
style multiply-less model for CIFAR-10 dataset achieves
an energy efficiency of 2.14 µJ/image, and throughput of
3019.5 images/s, with a testing accuracy of 91.71%. The
8-bit ResNet-50 style multiply-less model for the ImageNet
dataset achieves an energy efficiency of 220.04 µJ/image,
and throughput of 28.21 images/s, with a testing accuracy of
74.8%. Compared to the 32-bit floating-point model, the loss
of accuracy due to approximation and quantization is less than
0.1%, demonstrating the effectiveness of algorithm-to-circuit
co-approximation. Compared to the 74.5% accuracy for the
ImageNet dataset in [19], this work achieves higher accuracy
by regularizing fewer activation values.
C. Comparison With State-of-the-Art Works
Table III compares this work with other state-of-the-art CIM
macros. The peak area efficiency and energy efficiency are
measured for 8-bit weights and activations. Compared with
other CIM demonstrations, this work is the first CIM macro
that supports the L1-distance computation to approximate the
multiply-add operation. Meanwhile, this work achieves the
highest area efficiency and energy efficiency compared to
other works fabricated with similar technologies. Compared
with state-of-the-art approximate digital CIM [15], this work
achieves 6.58× energy efficiency and 1.7× area efficiency
improvement while providing ImageNet validation. Compared
to previous works, this work is the first design to achieve
over 100-TOPS/W energy efficiency for 8-bit operation with
ImageNet dataset validation.
VII. CONCLUSION
Digital CIM incorporates the processing unit into mem-
ory cells to reduce data movement energy and provide
Authorized licensed use limited to: University of Electronic Science and Tech of China. Downloaded on August 13,2026 at 04:02:35 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

===== PAGE 10 =====
704
IEEE JOURNAL OF SOLID-STATE CIRCUITS, VOL. 60, NO. 2, FEBRUARY 2025
high bandwidth. However, bit-widths expansion introduces
the
quadratic
cost
due
to
multiplication,
which
limits
further improvement for digital CIM. To address these
challenges, an efficient compute scheme is proposed to
approximate the multiply-add operations, thus guarantee-
ing linear area/energy scaling with bit-widths. This article
demonstrates a prototype digital CIM macro in 28-nm
CMOS based on a multiply-less NN and dynamic-logic-
based approximate circuits. The macro achieves 102-TOPS/W
peak energy efficiency and 4.4-TOPS/mm2 peak area effi-
ciency for 8-bit operations. Using the model deployment
flow, several NN benchmarks are demonstrated. With the
activation regularization and posttraining quantization tech-
niques for approximation, the multiply-less models with 8-/8-b
weights/activations show accuracy equivalent to floating-point
counterparts. The fusion of digital CIM and approximation
compute scheme provides new insights for algorithm-to-
circuit co-design, with high energy efficiency for edge AI
applications.
REFERENCES
[1] A. Krizhevsky, I. Sutskever, and G. E. Hinton, “ImageNet classification
with deep convolutional neural networks,” Commun. ACM, vol. 60, no. 2,
pp. 84–90, Jun. 2012.
[2] K. He, X. Zhang, S. Ren, and J. Sun, “Deep residual learning for
image recognition,” in Proc. IEEE Conf. Comput. Vis. Pattern Recognit.
(CVPR), Jun. 2016, pp. 770–778.
[3] J. Redmon, S. Divvala, R. Girshick, and A. Farhadi, “You only look
once: Unified, real-time object detection,” in Proc. IEEE Conf. Comput.
Vis. Pattern Recognit. (CVPR), Jun. 2016, pp. 779–788.
[4] A. Vaswani et al., “Attention is all you need,” in Proc. NIPS, 2017,
pp. 6000–6010.
[5] M. Horowitz, “1.1 Computing’s energy problem (and what we can
do about it),” in IEEE Int. Solid-State Circuits Conf. (ISSCC) Dig.
Tech. Papers, Feb. 2014, pp. 10–14.
[6] J. Zhang, Z. Wang, and N. Verma, “In-memory computation of
a
machine-learning
classifier
in
a
standard
6T
SRAM
array,”
IEEE
J.
Solid-State
Circuits,
vol.
52,
no.
4,
pp. 915–924,
Apr. 2017.
[7] M. Kang, S. K. Gonugondla, A. Patil, and N. R. Shanbhag, “A
multi-functional in-memory inference processor using a standard 6T
SRAM array,” IEEE J. Solid-State Circuits, vol. 53, no. 2, pp. 642–655,
Feb. 2018, doi: 10.1109/JSSC.2017.2782087.
[8] W.-S. Khwa et al., “A 65nm 4Kb algorithm-dependent computing-in-
memory SRAM unit-macro with 2.3ns and 55.8TOPS/W fully parallel
product-sum operation for binary DNN edge processors,” in IEEE
Int. Solid-State Circuits Conf. (ISSCC) Dig. Tech. Papers, Feb. 2018,
pp. 496–498.
[9] X.
Si
et
al.,
“24.5
A
twin-8T
SRAM
computation-in-memory
macro for multiple-bit CNN-based machine learning,” in IEEE Int.
Solid-State Circuits Conf. (ISSCC) Dig. Tech. Papers, Feb. 2019,
pp. 396–398.
[10] H. Valavi, P. J. Ramadge, E. Nestler, and N. Verma, “A 64-tile 2.4-Mb
in-memory-computing CNN accelerator employing charge-domain com-
pute,” IEEE J. Solid-State Circuits, vol. 54, no. 6, pp. 1789–1799,
Jun. 2019.
[11] Z. Jiang, S. Yin, J.-S. Seo, and M. Seok, “C3SRAM: An in-memory-
computing SRAM macro based on robust capacitive coupling computing
mechanism,” IEEE J. Solid-State Circuits, vol. 55, no. 7, pp. 1888–1897,
Jul. 2020.
[12] H. Jia et al., “Scalable and programmable neural network inference
accelerator based on in-memory computing,” IEEE J. Solid-State Cir-
cuits, vol. 57, no. 1, pp. 198–211, Jan. 2022.
[13] H. Wang, R. Liu, R. Dorrance, D. Dasalukunte, D. Lake, and B. Carlton,
“A charge domain SRAM compute-in-memory macro with C-2C ladder-
based 8-bit MAC unit in 22-nm FinFET process for edge inference,”
IEEE J. Solid-State Circuits, vol. 58, no. 4, pp. 1037–1050, Apr. 2023,
doi: 10.1109/JSSC.2022.3232601.
[14] H. Kim, T. Yoo, T. T. Kim, and B. Kim, “Colonnade: A reconfig-
urable SRAM-based digital bit-serial compute-in-memory macro for
processing neural networks,” IEEE J. Solid-State Circuits, vol. 56, no. 7,
pp. 2221–2233, Jul. 2021.
[15] D. Wang, C. T. Lin, G. K. Chen, P. Knag, R. K. Krishnamurthy,
and M. Seok, “DIMC: 2219TOPS/W 2569F2/b digital in-memory com-
puting macro in 28nm based on approximate arithmetic hardware,”
in Proc. IEEE Int. Solid-State Circuits Conf. (ISSCC), Sep. 2022,
pp. 266–268.
[16] Y.-D. Chih et al., “16.4 An 89TOPS/W and 16.3TOPS/mm2 all-digital
SRAM-based full-precision compute-in memory macro in 22nm for
machine-learning edge applications,” in Proc. IEEE Int. Solid- State
Circuits Conf. (ISSCC), vol. 64, Feb. 2021, pp. 252–254.
[17] H. Fujiwara et al., “A 5-nm 254-TOPS/W 221-TOPS/mm2 fully-digital
computing-in-memory macro supporting wide-range dynamic-voltage-
frequency scaling and simultaneous MAC and write operations,” in Proc.
IEEE Int. Solid-State Circuits Conf., Feb. 2022, pp. 1–3.
[18] H. Mori et al., “A 4nm 6163-TOPS/W/b 4790-TOPS/mm2/b SRAM
based digital-computing-in-memory macro supporting bit-width flexi-
bility and simultaneous MAC and weight update,” in Proc. IEEE Int.
Solid-State Circuits Conf. (ISSCC), Feb. 2023, pp. 132–134.
[19] Y. He et al., “7.3 A 28nm 38-to-102-TOPS/W 8b multiply-less approx-
imate digital SRAM compute-in-memory macro for neural-network
inference,” in Proc. IEEE Int. Solid- State Circuits Conf. (ISSCC),
Feb. 2023, pp. 130–132.
[20] B. Yan et al., “A 1.041-Mb/mm2 27.38-TOPS/W signed-INT8 dynamic-
logic-based ADC-less SRAM compute-in-memory macro in 28nm with
reconfigurable bitwise operation for AI and embedded applications,” in
Proc. IEEE Int. Solid-State Circuits Conf. (ISSCC), vol. 65, Feb. 2022,
pp. 188–190.
[21] J. Yue et al., “A 28nm 16.9–300TOPS/W computing-in-memory proces-
sor supporting floating-point NN inference/training with intensive-CIM
sparse-digital architecture,” in Proc. IEEE Int. Solid-State Circuits Conf.,
Oct. 2023, pp. 1–3.
[22] S. Liu et al., “16.2 A 28nm 53.8TOPS/W 8b sparse transformer accel-
erator with in-memory butterfly zero skipper for unstructured-pruned
NN and CIM-based local-attention-reusable engine,” in Proc. IEEE Int.
Solid- State Circuits Conf. (ISSCC), Feb. 2023, pp. 250–252.
[23] H. Diao et al., “A 28nm 128TFLOPS/W computing-in-memory engine
supporting one-shot floating-point NN inference and on-device fine-
tuning for edge AI,” in Proc. IEEE Custom Integr. Circuits Conf. (CICC),
Apr. 2024, pp. 1–2.
[24] J. Yue et al., “STICKER-IM: A 65 nm computing-in-memory NN
processor using block-wise sparsity optimization and inter/intra-macro
data reuse,” IEEE J. Solid-State Circuits, vol. 57, no. 8, pp. 2560–2573,
Aug. 2022.
[25] J.-W. Su et al., “16.3 A 28nm 384kb 6T-SRAM computation-in-memory
macro with 8b precision for AI edge chips,” in IEEE Int. Solid-
State Circuits Conf. (ISSCC) Dig. Tech. Papers, vol. 64, Feb. 2021,
pp. 250–252.
[26] P.-C. Wu et al., “A 28nm 1Mb time-domain computing-in-memory 6T-
SRAM macro with a 6.6ns latency, 1241GOPS and 37.01TOPS/W for
8b-MAC operations for edge-AI devices,” in Proc. IEEE Int. Solid- State
Circuits Conf. (ISSCC), vol. 65, Feb. 2022, pp. 1–3.
[27] J.
Song
et
al.,
“A
4-bit
calibration-free
computing-in-memory
macro with 3T1C current-programed dynamic-cascode Multi-Level-Cell
eDRAM,” IEEE J. Solid-State Circuits, vol. 59, no. 3, pp. 842–854,
Mar. 2024.
[28] H. Chen et al., “AdderNet: Do we really need multiplications in deep
learning?” in Proc. IEEE/CVF Conf. Comput. Vis. Pattern Recognit.
(CVPR), Jun. 2020, pp. 1465–1474.
[29] H. Shu, J. Wang, H. Chen, L. Li, Y. Yang, and Y. Wang, “Adder
attention for vision transformer,” in Proc. Adv. Neural Inf. Process.
Systems(NIPS), vol. 34, Sep. 2021, pp. 19899–19909.
[30] X. Chen, C. Xu, M. Dong, C. Xu, and Y. Wang, “An empirical study
of adder neural networks for object detection,” in Proc. Adv. Neural Inf.
Process. Syst., vol. 34, 2021, pp. 6894–6905.
[31] D.
Song,
Y.
Wang,
H.
Chen,
C.
Xu,
C.
Xu,
and
D.
Tao,
“AdderSR: Towards energy efficient image super-resolution,” in Proc.
IEEE/CVF Conf. Comput. Vis. Pattern Recognit. (CVPR), Jun. 2021,
pp. 15643–15652.
[32] B. Li, Y. Xin, C. Li, Y. Bao, F. Meng, and Y. Liang, “AdderIC:
Towards low computation cost image compression,” in Proc. IEEE
Int. Conf. Acoust., Speech Signal Process. (ICASSP), May 2022,
pp. 2030–2034.
Authorized licensed use limited to: University of Electronic Science and Tech of China. Downloaded on August 13,2026 at 04:02:35 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

===== PAGE 11 =====
DIAO et al.: MULTIPLY-LESS APPROXIMATE SRAM COMPUTE-IN-MEMORY MACRO FOR NN INFERENCE
705
[33] Y. Nie, K. Han, H. Diao, C. Liu, E. Wu, and Y. Wang, “Redistribu-
tion of weights and activations for AdderNet quantization,” in Proc.
IEEE/CVF Conf. Comput. Vis. Pattern Recognit. (CVPR), Jun. 2022,
pp. 22739–22751.
[34] H. Chen, Y. Wang, C. Xu, C. Xu, C. Xu, and T. Zhang, “Universal adder
neural networks,” 2021, arXiv:2105.14202.
[35] Y. Wang et al., “Addernet and its minimalist hardware design for energy-
efficient artificial intelligence,” 2021, arXiv:2101.10015.
Haikang Diao (Graduate Student Member, IEEE)
received the B.Eng. degree in electronic engineering
and the M.S. degree in circuits and systems from
Fudan University, Shanghai, China, in 2019 and
2022, respectively. He is currently pursuing the
Ph.D. degree with the School of Integrated Circuits,
Peking University, Beijing, China.
His
research
interests
include
computing-in-
memory, model compression, and acceleration.
Yifan
He
(Graduate
Student
Member,
IEEE)
received the B.S. degree from the Department
of Electronic Engineering, Tsinghua University,
Beijing, China, in 2019, where he is currently
pursuing the Ph.D. degree.
His
doctoral
research
includes
emerging
nonvolatile memories and in-memory computing
designs with a focus on digital circuit technology
for superior efficiency and compute density.
Mr. He was a recipient of the 2023–2024 IEEE
Solid-State Circuits Society (SSCS) Predoctoral
Achievement Award.
Xuan Li received the B.Eng. degree from the Uni-
versity of Electronic Science and Technology of
China (UESTC), Chengdu, China, in 2015. He is
currently pursuing the Ph.D. degree with Tsinghua
University, Beijing, China.
He
is
also
the
Founder
of
Wiener
Tech-
nology,
Beijing.
His
research
interests
include
energy-efficient data converter design, mixed-signal
and analog signal processing system, and emerging
sensing technology.
Chen Tang (Graduate Student Member, IEEE)
received the B.S. degree from the Department
of Electronic Engineering, Tsinghua University,
Beijing, China, in 2020, where he is currently pur-
suing the Ph.D. degree.
His research interests include neural network com-
pression and machine-learning accelerator.
Wenbin Jia received the B.S. degree from the
Department of Electronic Engineering, Tsinghua
University, Beijing, China, in 2022, where he is
currently pursuing the Ph.D. degree.
His
research
interests
include
computing-in-
memory
circuit
design
and
hardware/software
co-design for AI applications.
Jinshan Yue (Member, IEEE) received the B.S. and
Ph.D. degrees from the Department of Electronic
Engineering, Tsinghua University, Beijing, China, in
2016 and 2021, respectively.
He is currently a Post-Doctoral Researcher and an
Assistant Researcher with the Institute of Micro-
electronics of the Chinese Academy of Sciences,
Beijing.
His
current
research
interests
include
energy-efficient
neural
network
processor,
non-
volatile memory, and computing-in-memory system.
Dr. Yue served as a TPC Member for IEEE
A-SSCC2023 and ICCAD2023.
Haoyang Luo (Graduate Student Member, IEEE)
received the B.S. degree from the School of Informa-
tion and Electronics, Beijing Institute of Technology,
Beijing, China, in 2021.
He is currently working toward the Ph.D. degree
with
the
school
of
integrated
circuits,
Peking
University, Beijing. His research interests include
computing-in-memory, computing architecture, and
hardware security.
Jiahao Song (Member, IEEE) received the B.Sc.
degree (Hons.) from the University of Electronic Sci-
ence and Technology of China (UESTC), Chengdu,
China, in 2017, and the Ph.D. degree from Peking
University, Beijing, China, in 2022.
He was a Post-Doctoral Researcher with Peking
University, from 2022 to 2024. He is currently
a Post-Doctoral Researcher with the University
of California at San Diego, La Jolla, CA, USA.
His research interests include memories, comput-
ing in-memory, and low-power mixed-signal circuits
design.
Xueqing Li (Senior Member, IEEE) received the
B.S. and Ph.D. degrees from the Department of Elec-
tronic Engineering, Tsinghua University, Beijing,
China, in 2007 and 2013, respectively.
He is currently an Associate Professor with the
Department of Electronic Engineering, Tsinghua
University. He has over 130 publications and
holds 30 Chinese and U.S. patents. His research
interests include mixed-signal circuit design, emerg-
ing memory, and memory-oriented computing explo-
ration for AI acceleration.
Dr. Li is a Senior Member of CCF China. He received a few best
paper awards, such as HPCA’15, ASP-DAC’17, and 2016 IEEE TMSCS,
several teaching and thesis awards, and 2019 National Early-Career Award.
He also serves on TPC in a few conferences, such as DAC, ICCAD,
ASP-DAC, ISCAS, AICAS, GLSVLSI, ISVLSI, NVMSA, and COINS. He is
an Associate Editor of the IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON VERY LARGE SCALE
INTEGRATION (TVLSI) SYSTEMS and IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON EMERG-
ING TOPICS IN COMPUTING (TETC) and a Guest Editor of a few journal
issues, such as International Journal of Circuit Theory and Applications and
Flexible and Printed Electronics.
Authorized licensed use limited to: University of Electronic Science and Tech of China. Downloaded on August 13,2026 at 04:02:35 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

===== PAGE 12 =====
706
IEEE JOURNAL OF SOLID-STATE CIRCUITS, VOL. 60, NO. 2, FEBRUARY 2025
Huazhong Yang received the B.S. degree in micro-
electronics and the M.S. and Ph.D. degrees in
electronic engineering from Tsinghua University,
Beijing, China, in 1989, 1993, and 1998, respec-
tively.
In 1993, he joined the Department of Electronic
Engineering, Tsinghua University, where he has
been a Full Professor since 1998. He has been in
charge of several projects, including projects spon-
sored by the National Science and Technology Major
Project, the 863 Program, NSFC, and several inter-
national research projects. He has authored or co-authored over 500 technical
articles and seven books, and holds over 180 granted Chinese patents. His
research interests include wireless sensor networks, data converters, energy-
harvesting circuits, nonvolatile processors, and brain-inspired computing.
Prof. Yang received the Distinguished Young Researcher by NSFC in 2000,
the Cheung Kong Scholar by the Chinese Ministry of Education (CME) in
2012, the Science and Technology Award First Prize by the China Highway
and Transportation Society in 2016, the Technological Invention Award First
Prize by CME in 2019, the Gold Prize of iNEA 2019, and several best paper
awards, including ISVLSI 2012, FPGA 2017, NVMSA 2017, and ASP-DAC
2019. He has served as the Chair for the Northern China ACM SIGDA Chapter
Science in 2014, the General Co-Chair for ASP-DAC 2020, a Navigating
Committee Member for AsianHOST’18, and a TPC Member for ASP-DAC
2005, APCCAS 2006, ICCCAS 2007, ASQED 2009, and ICGCS 2010.
Hongyang
Jia
(Member,
IEEE)
received
the
B.E. degree from Tsinghua University, Beijing,
China, in 2014, and the M.A. and Ph.D. degrees
from Princeton University, Princeton, NJ, USA, in
2016 and 2021, respectively.
From
2021
to
2022,
he
was
a
Research
Post-Doctorate with NVIDIA, Santa Clara, CA,
USA. Since August 2022, he has been with the
Department of Electronic Engineering, Tsinghua
University, where he is currently an Assistant Pro-
fessor. His research focuses on advanced computing
technologies and systems, rethinking how emerging computing fabrics can be
integrated with architectures and algorithms to enhance system efficiency and
performance. His primary research interests include approximate computing,
mixed-signal computing, in-memory computing, energy-efficient circuits, and
architectures for robotic computing and security applications.
Prof. Jia received the 2017 Outstanding Student Designer Award from
ADI Inc., and the 2022 Bede Liu Best Dissertation Award in Electrical
and Computer Engineering from Princeton ECE. He serves on the technical
program committees for the IEEE/ACM ICCAD Conference.
Yongpan Liu (Senior Member, IEEE) received the
B.S., M.S., and Ph.D. degrees from Tsinghua Uni-
versity, Beijing, China, in 1999, 2002, and 2007,
respectively.
He is currently a tenured Full Professor with
the Department of Electronic Engineering, Tsinghua
University.
Dr.
Liu
is
a
Program
Committee
Member
of
ISSCC,
ASSCC,
and
DAC.
He
received
under 40 Young Innovators Award DAC 2017,
Best Paper/Poster Award from ASPDAC 2021 and
2017, Micro Top Pick 2016, HPCA 2015, and Design Contest Awards of
ISLPED in 2012, 2013, and 2019. He served as the General Secretary for
ASPDAC 2021 and the Technical Program Chair for NVMSA 2019. He was
an Associate Editor of the IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON COMPUTER-AIDED
DESIGN OF INTEGRATED CIRCUITS AND SYSTEMS, IEEE TRANSACTIONS
ON CIRCUITS AND SYSTEM II: EXPRESS BRIEFS, and IET Cyber-Physical
Systems: Theory and Applications. He also served as an A-SSCC2020 Tutorial
Speaker and an IEEE CASS Distinguished Lecturer 2021.
Yuan Wang (Member, IEEE) received the Ph.D.
degree in microelectronics from Peking University,
Beijing, China, in 2006.
He is currently a Full Professor with the School
of Integrated Circuits, Peking University. He has
authored or co-authored more than 100 techni-
cal articles and conference contributions, including
more than 30 articles published in IEEE TRANS-
ACTIONS and journals. He has been granted over
70 patents. His current research interests include
CMOS memory circuits, neuromorphic computing,
in-memory computing, and spiking neural networks.
Xiyuan Tang (Senior Member, IEEE) received the
B.Sc. degree (Hons.) from the School of Microelec-
tronics, Shanghai Jiao Tong University, Shanghai,
China, in 2012, and the M.S. and Ph.D. degrees in
electrical engineering from The University of Texas
at Austin, Austin, TX, USA, in 2014 and 2019,
respectively.
He was a Design Engineer with Silicon Lab-
oratories,
Austin,
from
2014
to
2017,
where
he
was
involved
in
the
RF
receiver
design.
From 2019 to 2021, he was a Post-Doctoral
Researcher with The University of Texas at Austin. He is currently an
Assistant Professor with Peking University, Beijing, China. His research
interests include digitally assisted data converters, low-power mixed-signal
circuits, and analog data processing.
Dr. Tang was a recipient of the IEEE Solid-State Circuits Society Rising
Stars in 2020, Best Paper Award at Silicon Labs Tech Symposium in 2016,
National Scholarship in 2011, and Shanghai Scholarship in 2010. He serves
on the Technical Program Committees (TPC) of ISSCC. He also serves as an
Associate Editor for IEEE SOLID-STATE CIRCUITS LETTERS.
Authorized licensed use limited to: University of Electronic Science and Tech of China. Downloaded on August 13,2026 at 04:02:35 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
