===== PAGE 1 =====
IEEE JOURNAL OF SOLID-STATE CIRCUITS, VOL. 60, NO. 9, SEPTEMBER 2025
3403
A Computing-in-Memory Engine Supporting
One-Shot Floating-Point NN Inference and
On-Device Fine-Tuning for Edge AI
Haikang Diao , Graduate Student Member, IEEE, Haoyang Luo , Graduate Student Member, IEEE,
Jiahao Song , Member, IEEE, Bocheng Xu , Graduate Student Member, IEEE,
Runsheng Wang , Member, IEEE, Yuan Wang , Member, IEEE,
and Xiyuan Tang , Senior Member, IEEE
Abstract— With the rapid advancement of edge AI, the
complexity of tasks on edge devices is continually increasing,
demanding better efficiency and precision from AI accelerators.
Pre-aligned floating-point computing-in-memory (FP CIM) has
been proposed to achieve high-precision neural network (NN)
computations
based
on
floating-point
(FP)
data
precision.
However, the complex digital circuitry required for integer
(INT) mantissa multiply-accumulate (MAC) computation and
exponent alignment severely limits the efficiency and throughput
of
FP
CIM.
This
work
proposes
an
energy-
and
area-
efficient computing-in-memory (CIM) engine for one-shot FP NN
inference and on-device fine-tuning. To improve the throughput
of FP CIM, a one-shot compute scheme is proposed to perform
FP operation within one cycle. It adopts the multiply-less
NN instead of the multiply-based NN to simplify the integer
mantissa MAC to minimum selection. A customized 8-bit parallel
minimum selector is also designed to further reduce the parallel
computation cost. To simplify the FP/INT conversion process,
an input–weight co-alignment workflow is proposed to eliminate
maximum exponent selection and simplify mantissa shifting
logic. To minimize the inference accuracy loss caused by
environmental changes, a lightweight on-device fine-tuning core
(ODFC) is designed to support online weight updates. The 28-nm
fabricated chip achieves an energy efficiency of 128 TFLOPS/W
and a computational density of 7.02 TFLOPS/mm2 at BF16,
representing a 4.1× and 3.4× improvement over previous state-
of-the-art works, respectively.
Index Terms— Compute-in-memory (CIM), floating-point (FP)
operation, on-device fine-tuning, one-shot.
Received 19 July 2024; revised 24 October 2024 and 10 December 2024;
accepted 15 December 2024. Date of publication 7 January 2025; date of
current version 27 August 2025. This article was approved by Associate Editor
Meng-Fan Chang. This work was supported in part by Beijing Natural Science
Foundation under Grant L244051, in part by Beijing Major Science and
Technology Project under Grant Z241100004224004, in part by the National
Natural Science Foundation of China under Grant 62304009, and in part by
the 111 Project under Grant B18001. (Corresponding author: Xiyuan Tang.)
Haikang Diao, Haoyang Luo, and Xiyuan Tang are with the Institute
for Artificial Intelligence and the School of Integrated Circuits, Peking
University, Beijing 100871, China (e-mail: diaohaikang@stu.pku.edu.cn;
xitang@pku.edu.cn).
Jiahao Song is with the Institute for Neural Computation (INC), University
of California at San Diego, La Jolla, CA 92093 USA.
Bocheng Xu, Runsheng Wang, and Yuan Wang are with the School of
Integrated Circuits, Peking University, Beijing 100871, China.
Color versions of one or more figures in this article are available at
https://doi.org/10.1109/JSSC.2024.3522304.
Digital Object Identifier 10.1109/JSSC.2024.3522304
I. INTRODUCTION
D
EEP
learning
based
on
neural
networks
(NNs)
has achieved state-of-the-art performance in various
tasks
[1],
[2],
[3],
[4],
stimulating
the
rapid
rise
of
edge AI. The computing-in-memory (CIM) design, which
integrates computational units into memory to directly perform
multiply-accumulate (MAC) computation, has proven to be a
promising architecture for NN accelerator in edge AI [5], [6],
[7], [8], [9], [10], [11], [12], [13], [14], [15], [16]. It reduces
the weight movement and activates multiple rows to perform
MAC computation in parallel, dramatically boosting energy
efficiency and throughput.
As edge AI applications continue to evolve, they face
increasingly complex tasks, such as object detection and on-
device model fine-tuning. Therefore, integer (INT) NN models
based on integer quantization (e.g., INT8) are insufficient to
meet the demands of these complex tasks. More powerful NN
models based on floating-point (FP) operations are required.
Previous CIM works have focused on combining with NN
model quantization to enhance the efficiency of integer
operations. To address the complex tasks in edge AI, recent
research has extended CIM to high-precision FP operations,
further enhancing the performance of NN models [17], [18],
[19], [20], [21], [22], [23], [24]. Researchers first explored to
implement both mantissa multiplication and exponent addition
directly within the CIM array [22], [23], [24]. For example,
an all-digital configurable CIM macro is proposed to support
the FP8 operation [22]. However, digital circuits for INT
mantissa MAC computation and exponent alignment consume
98% of the energy and area, severely limiting the energy
efficiency and computational density.
To further reduce the area and energy overhead, pre-
aligned FP computing-in-memory (FP CIM) interleaves input
alignment and INT mantissa MAC [17], [18], [19], [20], [21].
As illustrated in Fig. 1, four steps are required for the FP
CIM. Step 1 (X E max selection) finds the maximum exponent
of the inputs X E max using multi-level comparators. Then,
in step 2 (Input alignment), the mantissa of the inputs is
aligned to X E max, which is used for the integer mantissa
MAC with the weights in step 3 (mantissa MAC). Finally,
0018-9200 © 2025 IEEE. All rights reserved, including rights for text and data mining, and training of artificial intelligence
and similar technologies. Personal use is permitted, but republication/redistribution requires IEEE permission.
See https://www.ieee.org/publications/rights/index.html for more information.
Authorized licensed use limited to: University of Electronic Science and Tech of China. Downloaded on August 13,2026 at 04:04:14 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

===== PAGE 2 =====
3404
IEEE JOURNAL OF SOLID-STATE CIRCUITS, VOL. 60, NO. 9, SEPTEMBER 2025
Fig. 1.
Typical architecture of the pre-aligned FP CIM.
the integer MAC results are normalized into the FP format in
step 4 (INT-to-FP conversion). By pre-aligning the mantissa
in advance, it eliminates the need for complex alignment and
shifting operations within the CIM array, thereby improving
the efficiency of FP operation.
However, as shown in Fig. 2, prior pre-aligned FP CIM still
faces several major challenges.
1) The INT mantissa MAC severely limits the throughput
of FP CIM. In current FP CIM works, steps 1, 2, and
4 each require only one cycle, while step 3 usually uses
bit-serial multiplication, necessitating multiple cycles to
complete the integer mantissa MAC computation. For
example, for the BF16 data precision, step 3 requires
eight cycles for the INT8 mantissa MAC computation.
As a result, circuits designed for steps 1, 2, and 4 will
be idle for 87.5% of the time, significantly reducing
hardware utilization and throughput. Although Booth
encoding is used in [17] to reduce cycle count by
sending 2 bits per cycle, it requires additional circuitry
for data encoding and decoding and still takes four
cycles to achieve BF16 computation. If bit-parallel
multiplication is used in step 3, the multiplier and adder
tree consume over 96% overall area and energy.
2) The FP and integer conversion incurs additional area
and energy costs. For example, when the data precision
is BF16 and the input dimension is 128, step 1 requires
127 8-bit comparators to find the maximum exponent.
Step 4 searches the 16-bit integer output to find the
highest bit “1,” and then performs truncation and shifting
for FP format conversion. Both the steps introduce a
significant combinational logic delay and increase area
and energy costs.
3) The environmental changes decrease the NN model
accuracy. Edge devices frequently face changing envi-
ronmental conditions (e.g., lighting, weather), leading
to differences between test samples and training set
samples. Previous FP CIM works do not support on-chip
fine-tuning, resulting in decreased inference accuracy
under varying environmental conditions. As shown in
Fig. 2, when training the weights on MNIST and testing
on MNIST-M to simulate background changes in real
scenes, the inference accuracy drastically drops from
99.1% to 13.8%.
To overcome the above challenges, this work proposes an
energy- and area-efficient CIM engine for one-shot pipelined
FP NN inference and on-device fine-tuning. It leverages the
joint optimization of algorithms, architecture, and circuits to
complete complex FP operation within one cycle efficiently.
The primary contributions of this work are listed as follows.
1) This work proposes a one-shot compute scheme with
a parallel minimum selector to perform FP operation
within one cycle. It adopts a multiply-less NN instead of
the multiply-based NN that simplifies the INT mantissa
MAC to minimum selection. The parallel minimum
selector is proposed to reduce the area and energy
consumption of parallel minimal selection.
2) This work proposes an input–weight co-alignment
workflow to simplify the FP/INT conversion process.
It directly uses the maximum exponent of the weights
to align the input mantissa, thereby eliminating the max
exponent selection in step 1. Meanwhile, based on the
non-negative characteristics of the multiply-less NN,
it simplifies the mantissa shifting process in step 4.
3) This work proposes a lightweight on-device fine-tuning
core (ODFC). It can perform online model updates in
response to edge-side environmental changes, thereby
ensuring accuracy.
This article is an extension of [19] and is organized as
follows. Section II describes the proposed architecture of
the CIM engine. Section III presents the one-shot compute
scheme and the circuit details of the parallel minimum selector.
Section IV describes the input–weight co-alignment workflow
for FP/INT conversion. Section V presents the architecture
and data flow of the ODFC. Section VI presents the prototype
measurements and NN demonstrations. The conclusion is
drawn in Section VII.
II. PROPOSED ARCHITECTURE OF THE CIM ENGINE
The overall architecture of the CIM engine is shown in
Fig. 3. It comprises a mantissa alignment unit (ManAU) for
core-wise input–weight co-alignment, a CIM core for INT
mantissa computation, an INT-to-FP unit (ITFU) that converts
the integer output back into FP format, and an ODFC for
online model update. The CIM core contains an input driver,
an input adder tree (InADD), and 16 columns of subarrays
for 16-kb NN weight storage. Each subarray contains 128
8-bit 6T SRAM cells for NN weights storage, 15-bit 6T
SRAM for weights summation (WSUM) storage, 128 parallel
minimum selectors (ParMSs), and an accumulate–assembly
unit (ACC–ASU).
It is worth noting that the proposed CIM macro supports
both FP and INT computations, both requiring only one cycle.
In the FP mode, the ManAU shifts the input’s mantissa to
align its exponent with the weights’ maximum exponent. The
aligned input’s mantissa XMA is sent to the CIM core for INT
mantissa computation with weight. The CIM core outputs are
received by the ITFU and converted back into FP format. In the
INT mode, inputs and outputs are computed directly without
the involvement of the ManAU and ITFU.
Inspired by [25], we adopt multiply-less NN to replace
multiply-based
NN,
eliminating
costly
multiplication
Authorized licensed use limited to: University of Electronic Science and Tech of China. Downloaded on August 13,2026 at 04:04:14 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

===== PAGE 3 =====
DIAO et al.: CIM ENGINE SUPPORTING ONE-SHOT FP NN INFERENCE AND ON-DEVICE FINE-TUNING
3405
Fig. 2.
Three challenges of prior pre-aligned FP CIM.
Fig. 3.
Overall architecture of the CIM engine.
TABLE I
PERFORMANCE COMPARISON OF MULTIPLY-LESS
NN AND MULTIPLY-BASED NN
operations to simplify integer mantissa MAC computation.
As shown in the bottom of Fig. 3, the multiply-less NN uses
L1 distance instead of the dot product operation between
weights and inputs. A theoretical analysis in [26] proves
that multiply-less NN has the same expressive power as
multiply-based NN. Table I shows the performance of the
multiply-less NN across different models (e.g., CNN and
transformer) and various tasks (e.g., object detection and
image compression) [25], [27], [28], [29], [30], [31]. The
results indicate that multiply-less NN achieves comparable
performance and scalability to multiply-based NN. Moreover,
similar to the approach in [14], we expand the L1-distance
operation and convert it into a minimum selection operation
to further reduce computational complexity. As shown in
Fig. 4.
Comparison between the conventional FP CIM computation scheme
and the one-shot computation scheme in the BF16 data format.
Fig. 3, the sum of inputs xi is calculated by InADD, which is
implemented as a 128 8-bit adder tree. The result of InADD
is shared across the entire CIM core to amortize the extra
computation costs. The sum of weights wi is precomputed
before model deployment and stored in WSUM, and the
minimum
selection
and
summation
2 P min(xi, wi)
are
performed by ParMSs and ACC–ASU. This article combines
the multiply-less NN and computing-in-memory architecture
to alleviate the memory bottleneck. Thus, the performance
and efficiency of FP NN inference computation are greatly
improved.
III. ONE-SHOT COMPUTE SCHEME FOR FP OPERATION
A. One-Shot Compute Scheme
Fig. 4 illustrates the comparison between the conventional
FP CIM compute scheme and the one-shot compute scheme
in the BF16 data format. In the conventional FP CIM compute
scheme, step 1 of X E max selection, step 2 of input alignment,
and step 4 of INT-to-FP conversion can be completed within
one cycle. However, to reduce the MAC computation cost,
step 3 usually adopts a bit-serial data flow. It splits the 8-
bit mantissa and only inputs 1 bit per cycle to the CIM core
for MAC computation with the weights. Therefore, a total of
eight cycles are required in step 3. As a result, the circuits
for steps 1, 2, and 4 are idle for seven cycles, reducing
hardware utilization and throughput. In the one-shot compute
scheme, the INT8 mantissa computation is completed within
one cycle. It is enabled by the simplicity of minimum selection
in multiply-less NN, resulting in significantly lower hardware
overhead for bit-parallel data flow. As a result, input alignment,
mantissa computation, and INT-to-FP conversion each take
Authorized licensed use limited to: University of Electronic Science and Tech of China. Downloaded on August 13,2026 at 04:04:14 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

===== PAGE 4 =====
3406
IEEE JOURNAL OF SOLID-STATE CIRCUITS, VOL. 60, NO. 9, SEPTEMBER 2025
Fig. 5.
(a) Overall architecture of the ParMS, (b) state transition for the ParMS, (c) circuit details of the ParMS (the group P signals’ generation are not
shown), and (d) waveform for ParMS.
only one cycle, achieving pipelined FP computation. That
leads to an 8× throughput increase.
B. Parallel Minimum Selector Design
Although the multiply-less NN eliminates the integer MAC
computation, the required 8-bit minimum selection still incurs
high area and power costs. To further increase the efficiency,
a customized 8-bit parallel minimum selector (ParMS) is
designed, as shown in Fig. 5. It consists of a comparison unit
and eight select units. To avoid the power overhead of pre-
charge for SRAM, a hard-wired design is adopted in ParMS.
The Q node and QB node of the SRAM bit-cell are directly
connected to the ParMS. To reduce its combinational logic
delay, a carry-lookahead design is adopted in the comparison
units. Each comparison unit comprises eight encoders and a
comparison tree. The eight encoders convert the 8-bit XBMA
(the inverse of the mantissa of the input X), W, and WB in
parallel into 8-bit generate signals (G) and 8-bit propagate
signals (P)
G⟨i⟩= W⟨i⟩& XB⟨i⟩
P⟨i⟩= WB⟨i⟩
M
XB⟨i⟩.
(1)
Then the comparison tree outputs the comparison results’
signal (LESS)
LESS = G⟨7⟩+
6
X
k=0
 
G⟨k⟩&
7
Y
m=k+1
P⟨m⟩
!
.
(2)
Finally, the select unit outputs the smaller value between W
and X based on the LESS signal
OUT = LESS × XB + LESSB × WB.
(3)
Fig. 5(c) shows the circuit details of the proposed ParMS.
The Encoder adopts a pass transistor logic design to minimize
area and power, reducing the number of transistors from
14 to seven. To ensure signal integrity, we adopted a one-
stage pass-transmission gate design in the encoder. In addition,
the transmission gate consists of a symmetric NMOS and
PMOS pair, effectively mitigating threshold voltage loss and
maintaining signal quality. The digital logic of the comparison
tree is relatively complex. We expanded the logic in (2) to
simplify its circuit implementation. First, we define group G
and P signals as follows:
G⟨2i + 1:2i⟩= G⟨2i + 1⟩+ P⟨2i + 1⟩∗G⟨2i⟩
P⟨2i + 1:2i⟩= P⟨2i + 1⟩∗P⟨2i⟩
G⟨4 j + 3:4 j⟩= G⟨4 j + 3:4 j + 2⟩
+ P⟨4 j + 3:4 j + 2⟩∗G⟨4 j + 1:4 j⟩
P⟨4 j + 3:4 j⟩= P⟨4 j + 3:4 j + 2⟩∗P⟨4 j + 1:4 j⟩
(4)
where i = 0, 1, 2, 3 and j = 0, 1. Then, (2) can be further
expanded as
LESS = G⟨7:4⟩+ P⟨7:4⟩G⟨3:0⟩.
(5)
Equation (5) represents a three-level nested digital logic, with
each level having the same simple logic as group G signal
in (4). Therefore, we use a three-stage circuit to implement the
comparison tree as shown in Fig. 5(c). The logic of adjacent
stages is opposite, thus eliminating the need for inverters. This
tree-structured circuit significantly reduces the complexity of
the logic and the number of transistors, thereby reducing area
and power consumption.
The selection unit consists of two transmission gates and a
tri-state inverter controlled by EN and ENB signals. The EN
and ENB signals are used to gate the output of the ParMS
to reduce the dynamic power consumption of the adder tree
caused by unnecessary flipping from the ParMS. As shown
in Fig. 5(d), setting EN = 0 and ENB = 1 disables the
ParMS output at the rising edge of the clock. When the ParMS
completes its computation and stabilizes, setting EN = 1 and
ENB = 0 transmits the ParMS output to the adder tree.
Using this tri-state inverter, the power consumption of the
adder tree can be reduced by 44%. In addition, we designed a
configurable delay generation model in the chip that can adjust
Authorized licensed use limited to: University of Electronic Science and Tech of China. Downloaded on August 13,2026 at 04:04:14 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

===== PAGE 5 =====
DIAO et al.: CIM ENGINE SUPPORTING ONE-SHOT FP NN INFERENCE AND ON-DEVICE FINE-TUNING
3407
Fig. 6.
Evaluation for the parallel minimum selector (a) area and energy
comparison and (b) energy comparison at different input sparsity between the
dynamic-logic-based minimum selector in [14] and ParMS.
Fig. 7.
(a) Average toggle rates for different datasets and NN models and
(b) performance evaluation for one-shot compute scheme.
the delay time to accommodate different operating frequencies
and voltages. Due to the low combinational logic delays of
the ParMS, the OUT node is floated for less than 1/8 clock
cycle. Therefore, the voltage drop at the OUT node is minimal
and does not increase the power consumption of the back-end
circuit.
C. Technique Evaluation
Fig. 6 shows the performance evaluation for the ParMS.
Compared with an INT8 multiplier, ParMS reduces area by
11.5× and energy by 8.2×, respectively. When compared with
digital comparators generated using the digital synthesis flow,
ParMS reduces area by 14% and energy by 4.1×, respectively.
NNs typically exhibit high sparsity, especially when the ReLU
function truncates all negative inputs to 0. Therefore, ParMS
adopts a fully static logic design to leverage the NN sparsity.
As shown in Fig. 6(b), compared with the dynamic logic-based
comparator proposed in [14], ParMS demonstrates a significant
energy reduction as sparsity increases. The custom design of
ParMS enables the proposed CIM engine to perform INT8
mantissa computation more efficiently.
The bit-parallel computation used in the one-shot compute
scheme can exploit the input data correlation to reduce the
toggle rate. In NNs, adjacent input data are often similar to
each other. Specifically, the MSBs are more likely to be the
same across adjacent input data, whereas the LSBs vary more.
As a result, the MSBs feature a lower toggle rate than LSBs.
Fig. 7(a) shows the average input data toggle rates after input
alignment for different datasets and NN models. Bit-parallel
computation can leverage this data correlation to reduce the
Fig. 8.
(a) Range of inputs and weights and (b) offline weight lossless
clamping.
Fig. 9.
Example of the offline weight pre-alignment.
average toggle rate, thereby lowering power consumption.
In contrast, the traditional FP CIM, which uses bit-serial
MAC from MSBs to LSBs, cannot take advantage of this data
correlation. Fig. 7(b) shows the performance evaluation for
the proposed one-shot compute scheme. The area and energy
results of bit-serial multiply-based and bit-serial multiply-less
are based on post-synthesis simulation, evaluated at 28 nm,
0.9 V, 180 MHz. Compared with the conventional multiply-
based FP CIM, the one-shot CIM engine proposed in this work
reduces area by 2.8× and energy by 3.4×.
IV. INPUT–WEIGHT CO-ALIGNMENT WORKFLOW
For complex FP operations, as indicated by the second
challenge in Fig. 2, the FP/integer conversions in steps 1 and
4 increase area and energy consumption. To address this
issue, this work leverages the data distribution characteristics
of multiply-less NN to achieve input–weight co-alignment
workflow. Specifically, an offline weight lossless clamping is
performed, ensuring that the weights and inputs have the same
data distribution range. During the inference, the weights’
local maximum exponent of each CIM core can be directly
used to align the inputs, thus eliminating step 1 (X E max
selection). In addition, after processing through the ReLU
function, the inputs have no negative values. Similarly, the
weights, after lossless truncation, also have no negative values.
As a result, the outputs of the CIM core are non-negative.
Therefore, we propose the unsigned BF16 format (UBF16)
Authorized licensed use limited to: University of Electronic Science and Tech of China. Downloaded on August 13,2026 at 04:04:14 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

===== PAGE 6 =====
3408
IEEE JOURNAL OF SOLID-STATE CIRCUITS, VOL. 60, NO. 9, SEPTEMBER 2025
Fig. 10.
Online input–weight co-alignment pipeline.
to simplify the integer normalization process, which will be
described in detail in Section IV-B.
A. Offline Weight Lossless Clamping and Pre-Alignment
In the multiply-less NN, as shown in Fig. 8(a), the range
of weights is larger than that of inputs. Since the multiply-
less NN operator is the minimum selection, we can leverage
this data distribution characteristic to pre-determine the results.
Fig. 8(b) illustrates the process of offline weight lossless
clamping. After the ReLU activation function, the input X
is clamped to [0, Xmax], where Xmax is an empirical value
obtained from the training set. For weight less than 0, as the
X is non-negative, it can be pre-determined that the minimum
value would be the weight without the need for computation.
Therefore, negative weights can be directly clamped to 0,
and combined as a bias in advance. For weight greater than
Xmax, since all inputs do not exceed Xmax, it can be pre-
determined that the minimum value is Xmax. Thus, weights
greater than Xmax can be clamped to Xmax. It is worth noting
that during the actual inference process, the maximum value
of the input, Xinfmax, varies with different samples. However,
95% of Xinfmax are less than Xmax, which is obtained from
the training set, so the inference accuracy is hardly affected.
After lossless clamping, the weight distribution is aligned with
the input X ([0, Xmax]). Therefore, we can use the maximum
exponent of the weights to directly align the mantissa of
the inputs without introducing significant errors. Moreover,
lossless clamping increases the sparsity of the weights, thereby
reducing energy.
Fig. 9 shows a simple example of offline weight pre-
alignment. For the weights of each CIM core, the maximum
exponent WE max is selected and stored in advance. The
mantissa of weights is then pre-aligned based on WE max and
stored in the CIM core.
B. Online Input–Weight Co-Alignment
Fig.
10
shows
the
online
input–weight
co-alignment
workflow. The inputs’ mantissa is directly aligned by WE max
in the ManAU, eliminating step 1 (X E max selection) in the
conventional FP CIM. These aligned mantissas XMA are
then sent to the CIM core to perform the integer mantissa
computations with the 16 columns of pre-aligned weights’
mantissa WMA. Finally, the ITFU converts the 16-bit integer
results OMA back into an FP format. Note that in the test
Fig. 11.
(a) BF16 format and normalization process and (b) UBF16 format
and normalization process.
Fig. 12.
Performance evaluation for input–weight co-alignment workflow.
set, there may be cases where the input exponent is greater
than WE max. Since the computation in the CIM Core is to
find the minimum value, the result will be the weight in this
case. The ManAU directly sets the input’s mantissa to the
maximum value (8′11111111) to ensure that the minimum
value is weight.
For the convention FP CIM, the final step (INT-to-FP
conversion) is to convert integer data into BF16 format.
As shown in Fig. 11(a), the mantissa is 8 bit-width and
its MSB must be “1,” which is known as the hidden bit.
Seven lower bits of the mantissa are stored in BF16 format
(Mantissa⟨6:0⟩). Therefore, normalizing a 16-bit integer result
requires searching through 16 bits to find the highest bit “1”
and then shifting the mantissa accordingly. This increases the
area and delay overhead.
Authorized licensed use limited to: University of Electronic Science and Tech of China. Downloaded on August 13,2026 at 04:04:14 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

===== PAGE 7 =====
DIAO et al.: CIM ENGINE SUPPORTING ONE-SHOT FP NN INFERENCE AND ON-DEVICE FINE-TUNING
3409
Fig. 13.
(a) Round and cycle data flow for on-device fine-tuning and (b) overall architecture of the ODFC.
For our proposed workflow, since XMA and WMA are non-
negative, OMA from selection and summation would also be
non-negative. Thus, the unsigned BF16 (UBF16) format is
proposed in this design as shown in Fig. 11(b). In UBF16,
the highest bit represents the mantissa MSB instead of the
sign bit in BF16. Unlike the hidden bit in BF16, the mantissa
MSB in UBF16 may not be “1.” Thus, the search range for
the highest bit “1” in OMA is shortened from 16 to 8. If no
bit “1” is found in the higher 8 bits, the lower 8 bits can
be directly stored as the mantissa with MSB stored in the
highest bit of UBF16. Therefore, by introducing the UBF16
format, we simplify the process of searching for the highest
bit “1,” thereby reducing the area and delay of digital logic
circuits. When UBF16 data are subsequently computed with
BF16 data, the highest bit of the UBF16 is directly combined
with Mantissa⟨6:0⟩to form the 8-bit mantissa, allowing for
normal FP operation. This process is very simple and incurs
minimal hardware overhead.
C. Technique Evaluation
Fig. 12 shows the evaluation of the pre-aligned workflow.
The baseline is the conventional FP CIM with 128 BF16
inputs, and the measured area and energy include the
digital logic of steps 1, 2, and 4. The baseline results are
based on post-synthesis simulation and evaluated at 28 nm,
1 V, 180 MHz, and 10% input sparsity. By eliminating
step 1 through offline weight lossless clamping, the area and
energy can be reduced by 22.3% and 31.7%, respectively.
By introducing the UBF16 data format to simplify step 4, the
area and energy can be further reduced by 11.5% and 6.5%,
respectively.
V. ON-DEVICE FINE-TUNING
The architecture of the on-device fine-tuning core and
training algorithms for multiply-less NN are shown in Figs. 13
and 14. Compared with the minimum value selection operation
for inference, the training algorithm has significantly higher
computational complexity. It requires much more complex
circuits than inference to handle extensive computations.
However, the cost constraints in edge intelligence restrict
the chip’s area. Moreover, edge-side fine-tuning requires
significantly fewer training epochs than training from scratch.
Fig. 14.
Training algorithm for the multiply-less NN.
Fig. 15.
(a) Loss-preservative FP addition and (b) 16 ∗BF16 adder tree.
Therefore, we propose a lightweight ODFC with multi-round
data flow to perform fine-tuning in an area manner. It reduces
the scale of parallel computations and alleviates the ODFC’s
area cost.
Fig. 13(a) shows the round and cycle data flow, and
Fig. 13(b) shows the architecture design of ODFC. The
round and cycle data flow takes 128 rounds to sequentially
update the 128 × 16 weights in the entire CIM core. Each
round consists of four phases: weight read, weight update,
Authorized licensed use limited to: University of Electronic Science and Tech of China. Downloaded on August 13,2026 at 04:04:14 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

===== PAGE 8 =====
3410
IEEE JOURNAL OF SOLID-STATE CIRCUITS, VOL. 60, NO. 9, SEPTEMBER 2025
Fig. 16.
(a) Chip micrograph and (b) test platform.
gradient computation, and weight write. First, the mantissas
of 16 weights are read from the CIM core and normalized
to BF16 format. Then, the ODFC computation is performed
within k cycles, where k is the length of the gradient vector
in the training algorithm. In each cycle, ODFC obtains 1×
and 16 gradients from the latter layer and updates the fetched
weights and gradients for the previous layer. After k cycles, the
updated weights and biases are computed. Finally, the updated
weights are aligned, and the mantissas are written back to the
CIM core. Since the ODFC only updates 16 weights each
round, the circuit area is significantly reduced. In addition,
we time-multiplex the BF16 multipliers and BF16 adder trees
to share hardware across different phases of the computation,
further reducing the circuit area by 10%.
When multiple FP numbers are accumulated, intermediate
precision loss can occur due to shift alignment. As shown in
Fig. 15(a), when a large number is added to a small number,
the mantissa of the small number may become 0 after shift
alignment, resulting in the sum of three numbers being 0.
To reduce the alignment loss, we propose a loss-preservative
FP addition. The error caused by the alignment is retained and
added in the next level of addition. Furthermore, as shown
in Fig. 15(b), we use the loss-preservative FP addition to the
16∗BF16 adder tree to reduce the alignment loss in multilevel
FP summation.
Fig. 17.
Voltage–frequency scaling.
Fig. 18. Breakdown of the improvements. Baseline: a 28-nm FP multiply-less
CIM macro based on [14].
VI. MEASUREMENT RESULTS
A. Chip Micrograph and Summary
Fig. 16(a) presents the die photograph and summarizes
the chip measurement results. This chip is fabricated in
28-nm CMOS technology with a 1.7 × 1.1 mm area.
The chip integrates a CIM core (0.084 mm2), an ManAU
(0.018 mm2), an ITFU (0.003 mm2) for BF16 inference,
and an ODFC (0.037 mm2) for on-chip fine-tuning. Unlike
conventional FP CIM’s multiply-accumulate operations, the
computational functions of this chip are minimum selection
and accumulation. Therefore, the calculation of throughput is
different from the dot-product-based NN chips. In our chip,
a pair of minimum selections and accumulation of 1 input and
1 weight are counted as 2 Ops. The voltage scaling of this chip
is measured from 0.55 to 0.9 V, with the operating frequency
from 20 to 180 MHz. To ensure the normal operation of the
SRAM in the CIM, the read and write operations of the SRAM
are only performed at 0.9 V. For the low-voltage test, we first
maintain the voltage at 0.9 V to write the weights into the
SRAM, and then reduce the supply voltage to perform the
computation. At low voltage, the SRAM only needs to hold
the output signal statically, thereby enabling a wider operating
voltage range. The measured peak performance for UBF16
is 737GOPS at 0.9 V, 180 MHz. The measured peak energy
efficiency for UBF16 is 128 TFLOPS/W at 0.55 V, 20 MHz,
10% input sparsity, and 50% weight sparsity. The measured
peak area efficiency for UBF16 is 7.02 TFLOPS/mm2 at 0.9 V,
180 MHz.
Fig. 16(b) describes the test platform for the fabricated chip,
including the CIM engine chip, an FPGA board, a dc power,
Authorized licensed use limited to: University of Electronic Science and Tech of China. Downloaded on August 13,2026 at 04:04:14 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

===== PAGE 9 =====
DIAO et al.: CIM ENGINE SUPPORTING ONE-SHOT FP NN INFERENCE AND ON-DEVICE FINE-TUNING
3411
Fig. 19.
(a) Energy and area breakdown of test-chip and (b) layout of one
column in the CIM core (SRAM, WSUM, ParMS, and ACC–ASU).
an oscilloscope, and a host PC. The computer uses Vivado
to generate bitstream and program it into the FPGA board to
set up the test platform. A customized compiler on the PC
side generates instructions and data for chip configuration and
execution.
As
shown
in
Fig.
17,
the
voltage
scaling
of
the
chip is measured. The peak energy efficiency for UBF16
is 128 TFLOPS/W, running at 0.55 V, 180 MHz. Fig. 18
evaluates the effectiveness of the proposed techniques. FoM
is defined as the product of data precision, area efficiency,
and energy efficiency. The comparison baseline is a 28-nm
FP multiply-less CIM chip, with the architecture based on
the design from [14]. This chip uses bit-serial dynamic-
logic-based comparator circuits for minimum selection. The
comparison baseline results are based on post-synthesis
simulation, evaluated at 0.9 V, 180 MHz, 10% input sparsity,
and 50% weight sparsity. Compared with the baseline, this
work achieves a 5× increase in FoM.
Fig. 19(a) shows the area and energy breakdown of the
chip at 0.9 V, 10% input sparsity, and 50% weight sparsity,
excluding the ODFC. Based on the input–weight co-alignment
workflow, the area and energy proportions of the ManAU
and ITFU for FP/INT conversion are only 18.1% and 11.4%,
respectively. Fig. 19(b) shows the layout of one column in
the CIM core. Compared with FP CIM which uses parallel
FP multiplication [22], where the area of the multipliers and
adder trees is 49× that of the SRAM, our proposed one-shot
compute scheme with parallel minimum selector significantly
reduces the area of this digital logic, making it only 5.2× that
of the SRAM.
B. Evaluation on Multiply-Less NN
1) NN Model Deployment Flow: The macro architecture
is co-designed with software mapping algorithms. Fig. 20(a)
shows the custom off-line model deployment flow. First,
an FP32 multiply-less pre-trained model is obtained using the
standard training flow by PyTorch. Second, the weights and
inputs are truncated to BF16 format. Third, the weights are
losslessly clamped to [0, Xmax] and the negative weights are
Fig. 20.
(a) NN model deployment flow and (b) inference accuracy
improvement by model re-training.
Fig. 21.
Mantissa shift distribution of inputs and weights.
Fig. 22.
Layer-by-layer NN mapping method.
merged into the WSUM, as mentioned in Section IV-A.
Fourth, the weights mapped to the same CIM core will
find their local maximum exponent WE max and pre-aligned.
To mitigate the precision loss caused by pre-alignment,
a model re-training process is proposed. It retrains the model
with BF16 data precision, followed by reapplying weight
lossless clamping and pre-alignment. Note that during the
model retraining process, the input must also be aligned
using the input–weight co-alignment workflow as mentioned in
Section IV-B. Finally, the model is deployed when the model’s
accuracy is comparable to that of the FP32 model. Fig. 20(b)
presents the improvement in inference accuracy through model
re-training. After re-training ResNet-20 for five epochs and
ResNet-50 for ten epochs, the precision loss caused by pre-
alignment is fully compensated, resulting in inference accuracy
equivalent to the baseline.
Fig. 21 illustrates the mantissa shift distribution of inputs
and weights for the ResNet-20 style multiply-less model
inference. About 74.3% of the input mantissas and 89% of
the weight mantissas have a shift range of fewer than 5 bits.
This indicates that due to the model retraining process, the
Authorized licensed use limited to: University of Electronic Science and Tech of China. Downloaded on August 13,2026 at 04:04:14 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

===== PAGE 10 =====
3412
IEEE JOURNAL OF SOLID-STATE CIRCUITS, VOL. 60, NO. 9, SEPTEMBER 2025
TABLE II
NN DEMONSTRATIONS
TABLE III
PERFORMANCE OF THE ODFC
Fig. 23.
Inference accuracy recovery by ODFC.
Fig. 24.
Training loss and inference accuracy on the MNIST-M dataset.
weights deployed to the same CIM core are trained to be more
concentrated within a smaller data range. As a result, the shift
range of the weights is smaller than that of the inputs, thereby
reducing inference precision loss.
To evaluate the performance of NNs on the proposed chip,
a layer-by-layer NN mapping method is adopted. During each
layer’s computation, as shown in Fig. 22, the 16 columns
store the weights’ mantissa of 16 output channels, with each
column storing the 128 weights’ mantissa of different input
channels. During inference, 128 inputs with BF16 format are
fed into the one-shot CIM engine and computed in parallel
with the weights from the 16 columns. Finally, each clock
cycle outputs 16 UBF16 format partial sum (Psum) results.
2) NN Performance: Using this model deployment flow,
several multiply-less models have been demonstrated on the
prototype. In these models, the convolution multiplication is
replaced by the L1-distance computation. Table II summarizes
TABLE IV
LAYER-WISE ANALYSIS ON THE MNIST-M DATASET
the results of these benchmarks. For the image classification
task, the ResNet-20 style multiply-less model for the CIFAR-
10 dataset achieves 91.84% inference accuracy, and the
ResNet-50 style multiply-less model for the ImageNet dataset
achieves 75.00% inference accuracy. It can be seen that there is
no accuracy loss compared with the FP32 baseline models. For
the object section task, the FCOS style multiply-less model for
the COCO dataset achieves 36.8% mAP, with only 0.2% mAP
loss compared with the FP32 baseline model. In summary, the
NN demonstrations show comparable performance to the FP32
baseline, indicating the effectiveness of algorithm-to-circuit
co-optimization.
C. Evaluation for the ODFC
Table III shows the performance of the ODFC. The ODFC
occupies an area of 0.037 mm2 and operates at 180 MHz,
matching the peak frequency of the CIM core. Following the
training algorithm of the multiply-less NN, 1× is used for
gradient computation and weight updating with 16 weights
each clock cycle. Thus, the ODFC achieves 16 operations
per cycle, resulting in a throughput of 2.88GOPS at BF16
at 180 MHz, 0.9 V.
It is important to note that for ODFC operation, 1 X and 16
gradients are required from off-chip per cycle. To estimate the
power consumption, we performed a post-layout simulation,
as shown in Table III. The simulated area efficiency and
energy efficiency of the ODFC are 0.078 TFLOPS/mm2 and
1.71 TFLOPS/W at BF16, respectively.
Fig. 23 shows the inference accuracy recovery achieved by
ODFC. The inference accuracy drastically drops from 99.1%
to 13.8% when the dataset changes. Thanks to the proposed
ODFC, after ten epochs of on-device training, the inference
accuracy is restored to 84.3%. Although the larger alignment
sizes introduce errors to training in pre-aligned-based FP
CIM, the accuracy requirements for fine-tuning are much
lower than training from scratch, and therefore significant
accuracy recovery can still be achieved. Fig. 24 shows the
training loss and inference accuracy for each epoch. This
shows that on-device model fine-tuning and weight updating
by ODFC greatly reduce the accuracy degradation caused by
edge environment changes, thereby enhancing its robustness.
Authorized licensed use limited to: University of Electronic Science and Tech of China. Downloaded on August 13,2026 at 04:04:14 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

===== PAGE 11 =====
DIAO et al.: CIM ENGINE SUPPORTING ONE-SHOT FP NN INFERENCE AND ON-DEVICE FINE-TUNING
3413
TABLE V
COMPARISON TO STATE-OF-THE-ART WORKS
Table IV presents a layer-wise analysis on the MNIST-M
dataset for on-device fine-tuning. Both latency and energy
metrics encompass four steps: weight read, weight update,
gradient backward, and weight write. The total latency and
energy of the six-layer multiply-less NN are 14.3 ms and
18.1 µJ, respectively. Since the complexity of training is
significantly higher than inference, the total energy efficiency
of training is 1.32 TFLOPS/W at BF16, which is lower than
that of inference. In practice applications, on-chip fine-tuning
occurs far less frequently compared with inference, leading to
a negligible system-level energy efficiency impact.
D. Comparison to State-of-the-Art Works
Table V shows comparison of this work with other state-
of-the-art CIM chips. This work achieves the highest area
efficiency and energy efficiency compared with other works
fabricated with similar technologies. Compared with the bit-
parallel multiply-based FP CIM in [22], the one-shot compute
scheme proposed in this work significantly reduces the area
and energy of the digital logic circuits, thereby improving
energy efficiency and area efficiency. Compared with the state-
of-the-art FP CIM works [21], the energy efficiency and area
efficiency are improved by 4.1× and 3.6×, and the FoM
(calculated by data precision × area efficiency × energy
efficiency) is improved by 14.7×. Moreover, compared with
other FP CIMs works that only support inference, the on-chip
fine-tuning core proposed in this work enables online model
updates, maintaining high inference accuracy when the edge
environment changes.
VII. CONCLUSION
Recent works have extended CIM to high-precision FP
operations with additional pre-aligning circuits, enhancing the
capability to handle complex tasks on the edge. However, prior
FP CIMs still face several major challenges in meeting today’s
edge intelligence requirements. This work proposes an energy-
and area-efficient CIM engine for one-shot pipelined FP NN
inference and on-device fine-tuning. To increase throughput
and utilization for FP operations, a one-shot compute scheme
with a parallel minimum selector (ParMS) is proposed,
achieving pipelined FP computation within one cycle and
100% hardware utilization. To decrease the area and energy
overhead of FP/INT conversion process, an input–weight co-
alignment workflow is proposed to eliminate the exponent
selection and simplify the mantissa shifting logic. To reduce
the accuracy loss induced by application changes, an ODFC is
designed for online model updates. The fabricated 28-nm chip
achieves a peak energy efficiency of 128 TFLOPS/W and an
area efficiency of 7.44 TFLOPS/mm2 for UBF16 operation,
improving the state-of-the-art by 4.1× and 3.6×, respectively.
REFERENCES
[1] A. Krizhevsky, I. Sutskever, and G. E. Hinton, “ImageNet classification
with deep convolutional neural networks,” Commun. ACM, vol. 60, no. 2,
pp. 84–90, Jun. 2012.
[2] K. He, X. Zhang, S. Ren, and J. Sun, “Deep residual learning for
image recognition,” in Proc. IEEE Conf. Comput. Vis. Pattern Recognit.
(CVPR), Jun. 2016, pp. 770–778.
[3] J. Redmon, S. Divvala, R. Girshick, and A. Farhadi, “You only look
once: Unified, real-time object detection,” in Proc. IEEE Conf. Comput.
Vis. Pattern Recognit. (CVPR), Jun. 2016, pp. 779–788.
[4] A. Vaswani et al., “Attention is all you need,” in Proc. 31st Int. Conf.
Neural Inf. Process. Syst. Red Hook, NY, USA: Curran Associates, 2017,
pp. 6000–6010.
[5] J. Zhang, Z. Wang, and N. Verma, “In-memory computation of a
machine-learning classifier in a standard 6T SRAM array,” IEEE J.
Solid-State Circuits, vol. 52, no. 4, pp. 915–924, Apr. 2017.
[6] X. Si et al., “A twin-8T SRAM computation-in-memory macro for
multiple-bit CNN-based machine learning,” in IEEE Int. Solid-State
Circuits Conf. (ISSCC) Dig. Tech. Papers, Feb. 2019, pp. 396–398.
Authorized licensed use limited to: University of Electronic Science and Tech of China. Downloaded on August 13,2026 at 04:04:14 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

===== PAGE 12 =====
3414
IEEE JOURNAL OF SOLID-STATE CIRCUITS, VOL. 60, NO. 9, SEPTEMBER 2025
[7] J. Song et al., “A 4-bit calibration-free computing-in-memory macro with
3T1C current-programed dynamic-cascode multi-level-cell eDRAM,”
IEEE J. Solid-State Circuits, vol. 59, no. 3, pp. 842–854, Mar. 2024.
[8] H. Jia et al., “Scalable and programmable neural network inference
accelerator based on in-memory computing,” IEEE J. Solid-State
Circuits, vol. 57, no. 1, pp. 198–211, Jan. 2022.
[9] H. Valavi, P. J. Ramadge, E. Nestler, and N. Verma, “A 64-tile
2.4-Mb in-memory-computing CNN accelerator employing charge-
domain compute,” IEEE J. Solid-State Circuits, vol. 54, no. 6,
pp. 1789–1799, Jun. 2019.
[10] D. Wang, C. T. Lin, G. K. Chen, P. Knag, R. K. Krishnamurthy,
and M. Seok, “DIMC: 2219TOPS/W 2569F2/b digital in-memory
computing macro in 28 nm based on approximate arithmetic hardware,”
in IEEE Int. Solid-State Circuits Conf. (ISSCC) Dig. Tech. Papers,
Feb. 2022, pp. 266–268.
[11] Y.-D. Chih et al., “An 89TOPS/W and 16.3TOPS/mm2 all-digital
SRAM-based full-precision compute-in memory macro in 22 nm for
machine-learning edge applications,” in IEEE Int. Solid-State Circuits
Conf. (ISSCC) Dig. Tech. Papers, vol. 64, Feb. 2021, pp. 252–254.
[12] H. Fujiwara et al., “A 5-nm 254-TOPS/W 221-TOPS/mm2 fully-digital
computing-in-memory macro supporting wide-range dynamic-voltage-
frequency scaling and simultaneous MAC and write operations,” in IEEE
Int. Solid-State Circuits Conf. (ISSCC) Dig. Tech. Papers, Feb. 2022,
pp. 1–3.
[13] H.
Mori
et
al.,
“A
4
nm
6163-TOPS/W/b
4790-TOPS/mm2/b
SRAM based digital-computing-in-memory macro supporting bit-width
flexibility and simultaneous MAC and weight update,” in IEEE Int.
Solid-State Circuits Conf. (ISSCC) Dig. Tech. Papers, Feb. 2023,
pp. 132–134.
[14] Y. He et al., “A 28 nm 38-to-102-TOPS/W 8b multiply-less approximate
digital SRAM compute-in-memory macro for neural-network inference,”
in IEEE Int. Solid-State Circuits Conf. (ISSCC) Dig. Tech. Papers,
Feb. 2023, pp. 130–132.
[15] B. Yan et al., “A 1.041-Mb/mm2 27.38-TOPS/W signed-INT8 dynamic-
logic-based ADC-less SRAM compute-in-memory macro in 28 nm with
reconfigurable bitwise operation for AI and embedded applications,” in
IEEE Int. Solid-State Circuits Conf. (ISSCC) Dig. Tech. Papers, vol. 65,
Feb. 2022, pp. 188–190.
[16] H. Diao et al., “A multiply-less approximate SRAM compute-in-memory
macro for neural-network inference,” IEEE J. Solid-State Circuits, early
access, Aug. 5, 2024, doi: 10.1109/JSSC.2024.3433417.
[17] F. Tu et al., “A 28 nm 29.2TFLOPS/W BF16 and 36.5TOPS/W INT8
reconfigurable digital CIM processor with unified FP/INT pipeline
and bitwise in-memory booth multiplication for cloud deep learning
acceleration,” in IEEE Int. Solid-State Circuits Conf. (ISSCC) Dig. Tech.
Papers, vol. 65, Feb. 2022, pp. 1–3.
[18] J. Yue et al., “A 28 nm 16.9–300TOPS/W computing-in-memory
processor supporting floating-point NN inference/training with intensive-
CIM sparse-digital architecture,” in IEEE Int. Solid-State Circuits Conf.
(ISSCC) Dig. Tech. Papers, Feb. 2023, pp. 1–3.
[19] H. Diao et al., “A 28 nm 128TFLOPS/W computing-in-memory engine
supporting one-shot floating-point NN inference and on-device fine-
tuning for edge AI,” in Proc. IEEE Custom Integr. Circuits Conf. (CICC),
Apr. 2024, pp. 1–2.
[20] P.-C. Wu et al., “A 22 nm 832Kb hybrid-domain floating-point
SRAM in-memory-compute macro with 16.2–70.2TFLOPS/W for high-
accuracy AI-edge devices,” in IEEE Int. Solid-State Circuits Conf.
(ISSCC) Dig. Tech. Papers, Feb. 2023, pp. 126–128.
[21] A. Guo et al., “A 28 nm 64-kb 31.6-TFLOPS/W digital-domain floating-
point-computing-unit and double-bit 6T-SRAM computing-in-memory
macro for floating-point CNNs,” in IEEE Int. Solid-State Circuits Conf.
(ISSCC) Dig. Tech. Papers, Feb. 2023, pp. 128–130.
[22] J. Saikia, A. Sridharan, I. Yeo, S. Venkataramanaiah, D. Fan, and
J.-S. Seo, “FP-IMC: A 28 nm all-digital configurable floating-point
in-memory computing macro,” in Proc. IEEE 49th Eur. Solid State
Circuits Conf. (ESSCIRC), Sep. 2023, pp. 405–408. [Online]. Available:
https://api.semanticscholar.org/CorpusID:263707414
[23] C.-T. Lin, J. Oh, K. Lee, and M. Seok, “STAR-SRAM: 43.06-
TFLOPS/W, 1.89-TFLOPS/mm2, 400-Kb/mm2 floating-point SRAM-
based digital computing-in-memory macro in 28-nm CMOS,” in Proc.
IEEE Custom Integr. Circuits Conf. (CICC), Apr. 2024, pp. 1–2.
[24] B. Zhang, S. Moon, and M. Seok, “A 1-TFLOPS/W, 28-nm deep neural
network accelerator featuring online compression and decompression
and BF16 digital in-memory-computing hardware,” in Proc. IEEE
Custom Integr. Circuits Conf. (CICC), Apr. 2024, pp. 1–2.
[25] H. Chen et al., “AdderNet: Do we really need multiplications in deep
learning?” in Proc. IEEE/CVF Conf. Comput. Vis. Pattern Recognit.
(CVPR), Jun. 2020, pp. 1465–1474.
[26] H. Chen, Y. Wang, C. Xu, C. Xu, C. Xu, and T. Zhang, “Universal adder
neural networks,” 2021, arXiv:2105.14202.
[27] H. Shu, J. Wang, H. Chen, L. Li, Y. Yang, and Y. Wang, “Adder attention
for vision transformer,” in Proc. Adv. Neural Inf. Process. Syst. (NIPS),
vol. 34, 2021, pp. 19899–19909.
[28] X. Chen, C. Xu, M. Dong, C. Xu, and Y. Wang, “An empirical study
of adder neural networks for object detection,” in Proc. 35th Int. Conf.
Neural Inf. Process. Syst. Red Hook, NY, USA: Curran Associates Inc.,
2024, Paper 528.
[29] D.
Song,
Y.
Wang,
H.
Chen,
C.
Xu,
C.
Xu,
and
D.
Tao,
“AdderSR: Towards energy efficient image super-resolution,” in Proc.
IEEE/CVF Conf. Comput. Vis. Pattern Recognit. (CVPR), Jun. 2021,
pp. 15643–15652.
[30] B. Li, Y. Xin, C. Li, Y. Bao, F. Meng, and Y. Liang, “AdderIC: Towards
low computation cost image compression,” in Proc. IEEE Int. Conf.
Acoust., Speech Signal Process. (ICASSP), May 2022, pp. 2030–2034.
[31] Y. Nie, K. Han, H. Diao, C. Liu, E. Wu, and Y. Wang, “Redistribution of
weights and activations for AdderNet quantization,” in Proc. IEEE/CVF
Conf. Comput. Vis. Pattern Recognit. (CVPR), vol. 35, Jun. 2022,
pp. 22739–22751.
Haikang Diao (Graduate Student Member, IEEE)
received the B.Eng. degree in electronic engineering
and the M.S. degree in circuits and systems from
Fudan University, Shanghai, China, in 2019 and
2022, respectively. He is currently pursuing the
Ph.D. degree with the School of Integrated Circuits,
Peking University, Beijing, China.
His
research
interests
include
computing-in-
memory, model compression, and acceleration.
Haoyang Luo (Graduate Student Member, IEEE)
received the B.S. degree from the School of
Information and Electronics, Beijing Institute of
Technology, Beijing, China, in 2021.
He is currently working toward the Ph.D. degree
with the School of Integrated Circuits, Peking
University, Beijing. His research interests include
computing-in-memory, computing architecture, and
hardware security.
Jiahao Song (Member, IEEE) received the B.Sc.
degree (Hons.) from the University of Electronic Sci-
ence and Technology of China (UESTC), Chengdu,
China, in 2017, and the Ph.D. degree from Peking
University, Beijing, China, in 2022.
He was a Post-Doctoral Researcher at Peking
University, from 2022 to 2024. He is currently
working as a Post-Doctoral Researcher with the
University of California at San Diego, La Jolla,
CA, USA. His research interests include memories,
computing in-memory, and low-power mixed-signal
circuits design.
Authorized licensed use limited to: University of Electronic Science and Tech of China. Downloaded on August 13,2026 at 04:04:14 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

===== PAGE 13 =====
DIAO et al.: CIM ENGINE SUPPORTING ONE-SHOT FP NN INFERENCE AND ON-DEVICE FINE-TUNING
3415
Bocheng Xu (Graduate Student Member, IEEE)
received
the
B.Sc.
degree
from
South
China
University of Technology (SCUT), Guangzhou,
Guangdong, China, in 2022. He is currently pursuing
the Ph.D. degree with Peking University, Beijing,
China.
His current research interests include in-memory
computing, ising machine, and combinatorial opti-
mization problems.
Runsheng Wang (Member, IEEE) received the B.S.
and Ph.D. degrees (Hons.) from Peking University,
Beijing, China, in 2005 and 2010, respectively.
From November 2008 to August 2009, he was
a Visiting Scholar at Purdue University, West
Lafayette, IN, USA. He joined Peking University,
in 2010, where he is currently working as a Full
Professor with the School of Integrated Circuits
and also working as an Associate Dean of the
School of Electronics Engineering and Computer
Science. He has authored or co-authored one book,
four book chapters, and more than 190 scientific articles, including more
than 40 articles published in the International Electron Devices Meeting
(IEDM) and Symposium on VLSI Technology (VLSI-T). He has been
granted more than 20 U.S. patents and more than 30 Chinese patents. His
current research interests include nanoscale CMOS devices, characterization
and reliability, design–technology co-optimization (DTCO) and EDA, and
emerging technologies and circuits for new-paradigm computing.
Dr. Wang was awarded the IEEE EDS Early Career Award by the IEEE
Electron Device Society (EDS), the National Distinguished Young Scholars
by the National Natural Science Foundation of China (NSFC), and the Natural
Science Award (First Prize) by the Ministry of Education (MOE) of China.
He serves on the Editorial Board of IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON ELECTRON
DEVICES and Science China Information Sciences. He has also served on the
Technical Program Committee for many IEEE conferences, including IEDM,
IRPS, EDTM, and IPFA.
Yuan Wang (Member, IEEE) received the Ph.D.
degree in microelectronics from Peking University,
Beijing, China, in 2006.
He is currently working as a Full Professor with
the School of Integrated Circuits, Peking Univer-
sity. He has authored or co-authored more than
100 technical articles and conference contributions,
including more than 30 papers published in IEEE
TRANSACTIONS and journals. He has been granted
more than 70 patents. His current research interests
include
CMOS
memory
circuits,
neuromorphic
computing, in-memory computing, and spiking neural networks.
Xiyuan Tang (Senior Member, IEEE) received
the B.Sc. degree (Hons.) from the School of
Microelectronics, Shanghai Jiao Tong University,
Shanghai, China, in 2012, and the M.S. and
Ph.D. degrees in electrical engineering from The
University of Texas at Austin, Austin, TX, USA, in
2014 and 2019, respectively.
He was a Design Engineer at Silicon Laboratories,
Austin, from 2014 to 2017, where he was involved in
the RF receiver design. From 2019 to 2021, he was a
Post-Doctoral Researcher at The University of Texas
at Austin. He is currently working as an Assistant Professor with Peking
University, Beijing, China. His research interests include digitally assisted data
converters, low-power mixed-signal circuits, and analog data processing.
Dr. Tang serves on the Technical Program Committees (TPC) of ISSCC.
He also serves as an Associate Editor for IEEE SOLID-STATE CIRCUITS
LETTERS. He was a recipient of IEEE Solid-State Circuits Society Rising
Stars in 2020, the Best Paper Award at Silicon Labs Tech Symposium in
2016, the National Scholarship in 2011, and Shanghai Scholarship in 2010.
Authorized licensed use limited to: University of Electronic Science and Tech of China. Downloaded on August 13,2026 at 04:04:14 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
