===== PAGE 1 =====
IEEE JOURNAL OF SOLID-STATE CIRCUITS, VOL. 61, NO. 4, MARCH 2026
1697
An Area-Eﬃcient Lookup-Table -Based eDRAM
Digital CIM Macro for Neural Network Inference
Yifan He , Member, IEEE, Shupei Fan , Graduate Student Member, IEEE,
Xuan Li , Graduate Student Member, IEEE, Luchang Lei , Graduate Student Member, IEEE,
Wenbin Jia, Graduate Student Member, IEEE, Chen Tang , Member, IEEE,
Yaolei Li , Graduate Student Member, IEEE, Zongle Huang , Graduate Student Member, IEEE, Zhike Du,
Jinshan Yue , Member, IEEE, Xueqing Li , Senior Member, IEEE, Huazhong Yang , Fellow, IEEE,
Hongyang Jia , Member, IEEE, and Yongpan Liu , Senior Member, IEEE
Abstract—Digital circuit is a promising approach to implement
computing-in-memory
(CIM)
architecture
for
data-intensive
applications, such as neural network inference. Previous digital
CIM implementations have demonstrated higher throughput
and robustness than the analog counterpart, beneﬁting from
technology scaling and full-precision datapaths. However, the
traditional digital CIM designs adopt a bulky adder tree as
the computing circuit, limiting further improvements in area
and energy eﬃciency. To address the above limitation, this work
proposes a novel design methodology that combines the lookup-
table (LUT) and high-density embedded dynamic RAM (eDRAM)
cells. By storing precomputed weight summations in LUTs, the
proposed approach reduces the ﬁrst two stages of the adder tree.
Additionally, the row-level parallelism of the CIM architecture is
utilized to amortize the overheads of LUT weight encoding and
eDRAM refreshing. The 28-nm prototype demonstrates a peak
area eﬃciency of 16.2 TOPS/mm2 and an energy eﬃciency of
49.5 TOPS/W, both for 8-bit operations. The proposed eDRAM
macro achieves a 2.4 and 0.48 Mb/mm2 density in memory and
CIM mode, due to its balanced computing-storage ratio, enabling
reconﬁgurability between computing cores and memory storage.
Index Terms—Computing-in-memory (CIM), digital circuit,
embedded dynamic RAM (eDRAM), lookup-table (LUT).
I. INTRODUCTION
M
ATRIX-VECTOR multiplication lies in the heart of
modern deep neural network models, where the huge
weight parameters and massive multiply-and-accumulation
Received 3 March 2025; revised 25 May 2025; accepted 21 July 2025. Date
of publication 18 August 2025; date of current version 30 March 2026. This
article was approved by Associate Editor Meng-Fan Chang. This work was
supported by Beijing Major Science and Technology Project under Contract
Z241100004224016. (Corresponding author: Yongpan Liu.)
Yifan He was with the Department of Electronic Engineering, Tsinghua
University, Beijing 100084, China. He is now with the School of Electrical
and Computer Engineering, Cornell Tech, New York, NY 10044 USA.
Shupei Fan, Luchang Lei, Wenbin Jia, Chen Tang, Yaolei Li, Zongle Huang,
Zhike Du, Xueqing Li, Huazhong Yang, Hongyang Jia, and Yongpan Liu
are with the Department of Electronic Engineering, Tsinghua University,
Beijing 100084, China (e-mail: ypliu@tsinghua.edu.cn).
Xuan Li is with the Department of Electronic Engineering, Tsinghua
University, Beijing 100084, China, and also with Wiener Technology,
Beijing 100080, China.
Jinshan Yue is with the Institute of Microelectronics of the Chinese
Academy of Sciences, Beijing 100029, China.
Digital Object Identiﬁer 10.1109/JSSC.2025.3595012
(MAC) operations put severe challenges for traditional com-
puting platforms, such as CPU and GPU [1], [2]. The
fundamental problem is due to the ineﬃcient data transmission
between memory array and computing units for classic Von
Neumann architectures [3], [4]. Therefore, the computing-
in-memory (CIM) architecture is proposed to minimize the
overhead by equipping memory array with computing capa-
bility [5], [6]. Such approach enables both parallel readout
and in situ dimension reduction, improving the throughput and
eﬃciency at the same time [7], [8], [9].
The proposal of digital CIM [10], [11] marks a milestone in
the history of CIM developments. The digital approach directly
integrates standard logic cells aside the bit cell. Compared
with previous analog implementations [8], [12], [13], [14], the
standard logic cell guarantees the robustness for reliable neural
network inference. Also, the digital circuits can beneﬁt more
from the advanced technology with increased transistor density
and lower operating voltage, which brings both higher area
and energy eﬃciency simultaneously [15], [16], [17]. Most
importantly, the digital CIM macro provides easier integration
with the digital SoC, especially when scaling up to large-
scale CIM systems [18]. Actually, the developments of digital
CIM have led to the widespread industrial application of CIM
technology, ranging from embedded memories to DRAM [19],
[20], [21].
Although
previous
digital
CIM
implementations
have
demonstrated the advantages of digital CIM in terms of
accuracy, performance, and scalability, the eﬃciency is fun-
damentally limited by the bulky digital logic [22]. As shown
in Fig. 1, a typical digital CIM macro can be transformed
into a traditional weight stationary PE array by replacing the
memory bit cells with latches. Considering that both adopt
the same digital computing circuits, the main diﬀerence lies
in the storage devices. However, the area of a fully parallel
digital CIM array is mostly occupied by the massive logic
cells, making the choice of memory cells less signiﬁcant.
As a result, previous digital CIM macros [11], [15], [16],
[17], due to its limited storage density, behave more like
a computing engine, instead of a memory array. This leads
us to an important question, if the beneﬁt of digital CIM
solely comes from customized logic cells and manual layout?
0018-9200 © 2025 IEEE. All rights reserved, including rights for text and data mining, and training of artiﬁcial intelligence and
similar technologies. Personal use is permitted, but republication/redistribution requires IEEE permission.
See https://www.ieee.org/publications/rights/index.html for more information.
Authorized licensed use limited to: University of Electronic Science and Tech of China. Downloaded on August 13,2026 at 04:06:01 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

===== PAGE 2 =====
1698
IEEE JOURNAL OF SOLID-STATE CIRCUITS, VOL. 61, NO. 4, MARCH 2026
Fig. 1. (a) Illustration of digital CIM and traditional weight-stationary digital
PE array. (b) Comparison of a 22-nm digital CIM macro [11] and the PE
array projected by replacing SRAM with latches.
Sun et al. [23] summarize the mainstream digital CIM opti-
mization approaches ranging from customized full adder to
algorithm co-design. Although improving energy eﬃciency
signiﬁcantly, most approaches can also be applied to a tra-
ditional digital design ﬂow by merging the customized cells
into standard cell libraries. In other words, both the eﬃciency
of digital CIM and digital accelerators are still fundamentally
limited by digital circuits.
In this work, we break through the aforementioned limita-
tion by revisiting the digital CIM design methodology. Rather
than directly accumulating the results via full adders, we
encode the weight summations into an area-eﬃcient lookup-
table (LUT) made up of high-density embedded dynamic
RAM (eDRAM) cells. This allows the MAC operations to be
replaced by eﬃcient memory reads, thereby eliminating the
ﬁrst two stages of the adder tree. The proposed eDRAM-LUT
design leverages two feature of CIM architecture simultane-
ously: stationary weights and high-density memory cells. This
distinguishes our design from previous digital CIM work that
still relied on the traditional digital circuit design methodology.
The main contributions of our work are listed as follows.
1) We propose an area-eﬃcient eDRAM-LUT-based adder
(eLAD) tree, which reduces 42% area and 58% energy
than a conventional digital CIM design.
2) We reduce the overhead of LUT encoding and eDRAM
refreshing by 2.9× and 16× via an in-memory acceler-
ation approach.
3) We propose a high-density computing-storage reconﬁg-
urable eDRAM CIM macro with a density FoM1 5.8×
higher than previous designs.
This article is an extended version of [25]. Compared to
the previous conference version, we split the voltage supplies
of computing circuits and eDRAM write drivers to achieve
lower operating voltage and 2.5× higher energy eﬃciency.
1The density FoM is deﬁned as the product of storage density and 8-bit
MAC operation area eﬃciency [24].
The eDRAM cell is also optimized with an improved biasing
scheme to extend the retention time by 7.7×. The layout of
other computing and peripheral circuits is also optimized to
reduce the whole macro area by 5.5%.
II. BACKGROUND AND CHALLENGES
A. Design Motivations
While the LUT-based computing technique has been
explored since the emergence of CNN accelerators [26],
[27], it was ﬁrst adopted in digital CIM by [28], where a
logic-based LUT was implemented to reduce dynamic power.
Compared to the conventional digital CIM design, the logic-
based LUT replaces the ﬁrst stage of the adder tree with a
4-to-1 multiplexer. By using a static adder to compute the
weight summation, the total dynamic power is reduced by
21%. While such approach does utilize the weight stationary
property of the CIM architecture, its digital logic area is
actually increased due to the additional logic, which requires
more input bit parallelism for amortization. The proposed
eDRAM-LUT design moves one step further by building a
memory-based LUT design. The area overhead of LUT can be
fully tolerated by the high-density memory cells, which allows
us to exploit more aggressive adder tree reduction. Compared
to the both previous LUT-based CIM and traditional digital
accelerators [26], [27], [29], which still rely on standard cells
to build LUT, the proposed eDRAM-LUT design is both area
and energy eﬃcient for general MAC operations.
On the other hand, our eDRAM-LUT-based digital CIM
architecture is also motivated by previous reconﬁgurable
analog CIM designs [30], [31]. The capacitors from the
charge-based CIM array can be reused as the CDAC in the
SAR-ADC for area reduction. Similarly, the CIM macro built
by high-density eDRAM LUTs can be reconﬁgured as a
normal memory buﬀer to reduce the data transfer between
diﬀerent macros. The eﬀectiveness of the dual-mode CIM
has been demonstrated in previous work with reconﬁgurable
dataﬂow [24] and optimized mapping strategy [32]. Com-
pared to previous analog reconﬁgurable designs that rely
on a multiplexer to switch between ADC and CIM modes,
the eDRAM-LUT design enables reconﬁguration by simply
updating the LUT content, incurring minimal area overhead
while fully utilizing all bit-cells.
B. Challenges to Eﬃcient eDRAM-LUT-Based CIM
The key challenge to build an eﬃcient LUT-based digital
CIM macro is the high-density memory cell design. Only when
the inﬂated weight array has a smaller area than corresponding
accumulation circuits, can the LUT-based optimization bring
beneﬁts. However, previous eDRAM-based CIM work typi-
cally employed thick oxide transistors or extra capacitors at
the storage node to improve the retention time. The resulted
cell area, though having less transistors, was even larger
than an SRAM cell at the same technology node [30], [33].
Such solutions sacriﬁcing the storage density for refreshing
overhead are incompatible with the principle of LUT-based
computing. As shown in Fig. 2(a), we adopt a compact
eDRAM cell layout without additional MOM capacitors. As
a result, the retention time is degraded by 10×. In such case,
Authorized licensed use limited to: University of Electronic Science and Tech of China. Downloaded on August 13,2026 at 04:06:01 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

===== PAGE 3 =====
HE et al.: AREA-EFFICIENT LUT-BASED eDRAM DIGITAL CIM MACRO FOR NEURAL NETWORK INFERENCE
1699
Fig. 2. Main challenges of eDRAM-LUT-based digital CIM. (a) Refreshing
overhead of MOM-less high-density eDRAM and (b) LUT programming
overhead.
frequent periodic refreshing operation will incur more than
50% overhead for computation operations at the worst scenario
with high temperature and low operating frequency.
Besides the eDRAM issue, the LUT itself also introduces an
additional programming cost, since both original weights and
their linear combination need to be stored. Fig. 2(b) compares
two typical solutions: oﬀ-chip and on-chip LUT encoding.
While ﬁrst one avoids the weight generation overhead by
precomputing the LUT content during compilation stage, its
drawback is also obvious since both oﬀ-chip storage and
programming time inﬂates by 5×. As a tradeoﬀbetween
on- and oﬀ-chip resources, the on-chip encoding approach
locally accumulates the weight summation with additional
computation units. However, both approaches still need to load
weights into CIM macro serially, which inevitably consumes
more programming time limited by I/O bandwidth.
As a summary, implementing a compact memory cell
and reducing the encoding cost are essential to make
eDRAM-LUT-based CIM practical and eﬃcient.
III. RECONFIGURABLE EDRAM-LUT-BASED DIGITAL
CIM MACRO ARCHITECTURE
The overall architecture of the proposed eDRAM-LUT-
based digital CIM macro is shown in Fig. 3(a), highlighting
three key innovations. First of all, the design consists of a
40-Kb reconﬁgurable eDRAM array that serves dual purposes
for both computing and storage. Unlike the digital CIM macros
relying solely on logic circuits for computation [11], [22],
[34], the proposed LUT-based implementation achieves the
storage density higher than a logic-rule SRAM [35] in memory
Fig. 3.
(a) Overall architecture of the proposed eDRAM CIM macro with
three key features and (b) function mapping of main components for CIM
and normal memory modes.
mode while maintaining full input and output parallelism for
high-throughput CIM operations. The whole eDRAM array
is partitioned into 16 banks corresponding to diﬀerent output
channels, amortizing the WL decoder costs of 64-bit inputs.
The diﬀerences between CIM and normal memory mode
mainly lie in the decoder conﬁguration and LUT content. As
shown in Fig. 3(b), the decoder is decomposed into LSB and
MSB parts. In the memory mode, the MSB decoder is activated
to select one of the 16 LSB decoders based on ADDR<7:4>,
while the remaining address bits are forwarded to the selected
LSB decoder to activate the corresponding WL. In contrast,
the CIM mode bypasses the MSB decoder and enables all 16
LSB decoders, allowing for parallel LUT-based computation.
The activation bits are directly used to fetch the corresponding
partial sums. Consequently, the LUT content in CIM mode
consists of the 16 combinations of 4 × 8 b weights instead of
the 16×10 b arbitrary data in the memory mode. The detailed
operation of both CIM and memory modes is illustrated later
in Section IV-B.
Second, each CIM bank incorporates of 16 eLAD modules
to perform eﬃcient MAC operations. The eLAD is equivalent
Authorized licensed use limited to: University of Electronic Science and Tech of China. Downloaded on August 13,2026 at 04:06:01 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

===== PAGE 4 =====
1700
IEEE JOURNAL OF SOLID-STATE CIRCUITS, VOL. 61, NO. 4, MARCH 2026
Fig. 4. Schematic of 3T eDRAM cells in this work and previous version [25]
with diﬀerent biasing schemes and readout port designs.
Fig. 5. 10k-point Monte Carlo simulation of leakage test at 60 ◦C and diﬀerent
WBL bias voltages.
to the ﬁrst two stages of an adder tree, generating the MAC
results of four input channels. Compared to the conventional
digital logic implementations, the eLAD replaces complex
full adders with simple 3 T eDRAM cells. Additionally, the
dynamic power consumption caused by frequent switching is
reduced through low-power memory read operations, thereby
enabling both area- and energy-eﬃcient MAC operations, as
illustrated later in Section IV-B. The outputs of eLAD modules
are subsequently aggregated through a 16 × 10-bit adder tree.
To minimize the digital logic area, the CIM macro adopts bit-
serial processing for input activations. Thus, the shift adders
are employed to accumulate the partial sums in an LSB-ﬁrst
order over eight cycles, generating full-precision results for
64-input 8-bit MAC operations.
Lastly, dedicated local read and write ports are placed
between eLAD modules and the following accumulation cir-
cuits. The bidirectional ports enable ﬂexible and parallel data
movements within the eDRAM array, an essential feature for
eﬃcient in-memory refreshing and weight encoding opera-
tions, as detailed in Section V. The macro also includes other
peripherals for data movement and controlling, such as the
I/O interfaces, timing modules, and the driver circuits for
Fig. 6. (a) Schematic of eLADs, (b) layout implementation of the 3 T eDRAM
cell compared to a standard nine-track full adder cell, and (c) data mapping
of eLAD in CIM mode.
Fig. 7. Timing diagram of eLAD-based CIM operations.
global signals. Notably, diﬀerent from [25], the write circuits,
including WWL decoders, GWBL, and WWL drivers, are
grouped in an isolated high-voltage domain, separating them
Authorized licensed use limited to: University of Electronic Science and Tech of China. Downloaded on August 13,2026 at 04:06:01 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

===== PAGE 5 =====
HE et al.: AREA-EFFICIENT LUT-BASED eDRAM DIGITAL CIM MACRO FOR NEURAL NETWORK INFERENCE
1701
Fig. 8.
Area and energy improvement of eLADs over the baseline digital
CIM implementation.
from the other low-voltage computing circuits and the eDRAM
array. Such isolation can mitigate the threshold voltage loss
in write selectors of eDRAM cells, especially in low-voltage
operating conditions, as shown in Section VI.
IV. ELAD TREE IMPLEMENTATIONS
A. Design Details of Optimized 3T eDRAM Cell
Before discussing the design tradeoﬀs of eLAD, we ﬁrst
elaborate on the implementation details and modiﬁcations of
the 3 T eDRAM cell compared to our previous work as
shown in Fig. 4 [25]. As outlined in Section II-B, the removal
of additional capacitors at the storage node enables a more
compact layout. To compensate for the resulting reduction in
retention time without compromising area eﬃciency, we adopt
an alternative approach to suppress the leakage. Rather than
employing negative WWL voltages, which requires dedicated
negative voltage generator [36], we modify WBL bias voltage
from to VSS to VDD to naturally establish a negative VGS for
bit-“0.”
Fig. 5 presents the Monte Carlo simulation results compar-
ing leakage behavior under diﬀerent conﬁgurations. When the
WBL is biased at VSS, the bit-“1” rapidly decays to VSS
within 3 µs at the fastest corner, thereby limiting the overall
retention time of the eDRAM macro. In contrast, the leakage
current can be greatly reduced for bit-“1” by biasing the WBL
at VDD. Although this conﬁguration causes bit-“0” to be
charged toward bit-“1” gradually, the increased storage node
voltage introduces a negative VGS, which eﬀectively suppresses
the channel leakage current. To further mitigate the impact
of increased bit-“0” voltage, the pair of read transistors in
the eDRAM cell is changed from LVT to RVT devices. As a
result, 220-mV voltage margin is preserved at 20 µs, leading
to a more than 7× improvement in retention time, as presented
in Section VI.
Additionally, the readout port design has been simpliﬁed to
further reduce the area and energy consumption of the eDRAM
array, as illustrated in the right column of Fig. 4. The previous
design employed a C2MOS-like dynamic latch to eliminate
potential glitches during RBL precharging and discharging
phases, at the cost of driving additional complementary control
signals REN and RENB. The current implementation, similar
to a TSPC register [37], employs a single NMOS transistor
instead of a transmission gate while sharing the PRE signal.
Although the modiﬁcation introduces output glitches during
RBL discharging, the total power and area are reduced by 8%
and 3% due to simpliﬁed readout port design.
B. Eﬃcient eLAD
Fig. 6(a) presents the implementation of the proposed LUT-
based adder that utilizes compact 3 T eDRAM cells. The
design incorporates a 16 × 10-bit eDRAM subarray with
hierarchical write bitlines and the local RWL decoder shared
by diﬀerent CIM banks. In the CIM mode, the eLAD performs
MAC operations of 4 × 1-bit inputs and 4 × 8-bit weights
per cycle through LUT access. As demonstrated in Fig. 6(b),
the high-density memory cells enable eﬃcient LUT-based
computing, with the implemented eDRAM cell occupying
merely 0.145 µm2, which is 11.9× smaller than that of a
standard nine-track full adder cell.
Fig. 6 illustrates the weight data mapping organized by cor-
responding activation binary codes. This conﬁguration allows
the input bits to be directly used as LUT access address,
thereby making the decoder logic consist with normal memory
operation except for all-zero inputs. Since such case produces
zero outputs irrespective of stored weights, the corresponding
wordline is power-gated in the CIM mode by turning oﬀ
discharging. Although it appears to waste storage capacity,
the additional wordline can both simplify the decoder logic
in memory mode and serve as a scratchpad for in-memory
encoding operation, as discussed in Section V.
Fig. 7 shows the detailed timing diagram of the eLAD and
subsequent accumulation circuits for an 8-bit MAC operation.
The entire process follows a three-stage pipeline: 1) eLAD
partial sum generation; 2) adder tree accumulation; and 3) bit-
shift accumulation. First, the input activations are fed to the
CIM macro in a bit-serial, LSB-ﬁrst manner. The precharge
signal initializes the RBL to prepare for readout. Then, for
every four bits of activation data, a corresponding RWL pulse
is generated to retrieve the partial sum DOUT from the
eDRAM LUT. Second, these partial sums are accumulated by
the adder tree, with its output SUM sampled on the rising edge
of the next precharge pulse. Finally, the complete MAC result
RES is generated by the shift-adders over eight cycles.
Compared to the baseline digital CIM composed of the
standard digital cell and adopting the same input bit-serial
architecture, as shown in Fig. 8, the proposed eLAD-based
design achieves 40% area and 54% energy reduction while
maintaining the same throughput and full precision. The
improvements come from both the high-density memory
cell and eﬃcient LUT read operations. The current version
achieves further reduction by simplifying the readout port, as
illustrated in Fig. 4. In addition to the eﬃciency improvement,
the proposed LUT-based computing strikes a balance of stor-
age and computing. The eDRAM array dominates the overall
area, leading to signiﬁcant storage density in the memory
mode.
Fig. 9 further explores the potential design space of
LUT-based computing. First, we compare diﬀerent LUT
implementations using SRAM cells ranging from 10 to 6 T,
which reveals a tradeoﬀbetween area and readout energy,
as shown in Fig. 9(a). When accounting for dummy cells
Authorized licensed use limited to: University of Electronic Science and Tech of China. Downloaded on August 13,2026 at 04:06:01 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

===== PAGE 6 =====
1702
IEEE JOURNAL OF SOLID-STATE CIRCUITS, VOL. 61, NO. 4, MARCH 2026
Fig. 9. Design space exploration of LUT-based adders on (a) memory cell
and (b) weight number selection.
surrounding the 16 × 10-bit array, the 3 T eDRAM achieves
a 36% and 22% area reduction compared to foundry-provided
6 T high-performance and high-density SRAM, respectively.
Although the 10 T SRAM [38], featuring a precharging-free
and single-ended readout port, achieves the highest energy
eﬃciency, the additional transistors result in a 3× area
overhead, making it impractical for area-sensitive LUT-based
computing. By adopting the area-energy product as a ﬁgure of
merit (FoM), the FoM curve demonstrates that the proposed
eDRAM-based solution achieves the optimal tradeoﬀof area
and energy eﬃciency.
In addition to memory cell selection, Fig. 9(b) analyzes
the impact of diﬀerent LUT depths. As expected, the number
of weights results in an exponential growth in memory size.
While increasing the storage ratio and memory density, the
overall beneﬁt of LUT-based computing diminishes gradually.
Speciﬁcally, when >5 weights are contained, the area eﬃ-
ciency of eLAD drops below that of standard digital logic.
By jointly considering storage and computational density, the
FoM curve deﬁned as their product reveals that the adopted
four-weight LUT achieves the best tradeoﬀin density.
V. IN-MEMORY REFRESHING AND ENCODING SCHEMES
A. In-Memory Refreshing Implementations
After analyzing the advantages and tradeoﬀs of eDRAM-
LUT-based CIM, we introduce how to overcome its refreshing
Fig. 10. Schematic of in-memory refreshing and encoding port.
Fig. 11. Illustration of in-memory refreshing operations with detailed wave-
forms.
and programming overhead using the in-memory refreshing
and encoding port. The proposed architecture contains a read
port, which has been illustrated in Fig. 10, and two additional
transistors marked in green and red, respectively.
The green transistor, controlled by the refresh write-back
signal (WB RFS), enables in situ refreshing through connect-
ing the output of read port to LWBL. The red transistor, in
contrast, redirects summation results from the following adder
tree to LWBL for generating diﬀerent weight combinations.
The detailed waveforms of in-memory refreshing are illus-
trated in Fig. 11. The timing of refreshing operations can
be divided into three phases: precharging, discharging, and
write-back. The WB RFS signals are enabled following RWL
pulse to realize write-back operation in one cycle. Unlike
conventional row-by-row refreshing scheme, the in-memory
refreshing activates diﬀerent LUTs in parallel to achieve a 16×
speedup. As shown in Section VI, the accelerated refreshing
relaxes the constraint on eDRAM retention time.
B. In-Memory Encoding Implementations
The in-memory encoding operation is similar to the
refreshing one with a main diﬀerence that diﬀerent weight
combinations are written back, instead of the original readout
data. In order to minimize the area overhead of weight
computing circuits, we reuse the adders from the subsequent
adder tree. For the compatibility with the adder tree dataﬂow,
where inputs are read from two neighboring LUTs, the initial
weights require a double writing scheme.
The whole encoding process is illustrated in Fig. 12, which
are divided into two stages: the weight loading and generation.
Authorized licensed use limited to: University of Electronic Science and Tech of China. Downloaded on August 13,2026 at 04:06:01 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

===== PAGE 7 =====
HE et al.: AREA-EFFICIENT LUT-BASED eDRAM DIGITAL CIM MACRO FOR NEURAL NETWORK INFERENCE
1703
Fig. 12.
Illustration of in-memory encoding operations with detailed
waveforms.
Fig. 13.
Latency and eﬃciency improvements of in-memory (a) refreshing
operations and (b) encoding operations.
Each weight data is stored in the corresponding LUT as well as
its neighboring LUT to prepare for the next generation stage.
The unused wordlines including WL0 serve as an intermediate
weight buﬀer. Such double writing operation can be performed
without latency overhead through activating both WWL in the
same cycle.
Fig. 14. Normalized macro energy eﬃciency and throughput considering the
data loading time and energy under diﬀerent weight reuse times.
During the generation process, the shared adder fetches
intermediate data from two LUTs and write back the
computation results by activating WB SUM signal. To ensure
suﬃcient setup time for weight computing, the write back sig-
nal, unlike the refreshing mode, is aligned with the precharging
signal in the next cycle. Due to the parallel encoding, the
weight generation stage takes up 23 cycles, 26% of the total
programming time. Fig. 13 shows the whole process of in-
memory encoding, where 1st, 7th, 11th, and 13th rows of each
LUT are used to store the temporary value for LUT generation.
By carefully arranging the order of weight read and write
operations and leveraging the unused WL0, the whole process
is data-collision free. Also, since the encoding stage requires
no data interaction with external logic, it allows the LUT-
based CIM macro to maintain a programming model similar
to regular memory.
Fig. 14 summarizes the in-memory refreshing and encoding
schemes by the evaluation results. Leveraging the parallel in-
memory bandwidth, the proposed design achieves 16× and
2.9× reduction in refreshing and programming latency, respec-
tively. In addition to the speed up, the in-memory technique
improves 9.5× and 2.3× energy eﬃciency by reducing global
data movement. The additional local read–write ports and
write-back path from the adders increase the macro area by
only 10% and 2%, respectively.
We also evaluate the normalized energy eﬃciency and
throughput of the LUT-based CIM macro considering the
programming overhead under diﬀerent weight reuse times,
as show in Fig. 15. Since the in-memory encoding stage
consumes more power than normal computing due to con-
current read and write operations, it requires more computing
cycles to amortize the energy overhead than that of throughput.
Nevertheless, when the weight reuse exceeds 70×, which is
typical in CNN models, the programming overhead accounts
for less than 10%.
VI. MEASUREMENT RESULTS
Fig. 16 presents the die photograph of the proposed eDRAM
CIM macro and summarizes its main measurement results. The
prototype chip is fabricated using 28-nm HKMG technology.
The eDRAM macro occupies a 0.016 mm2 area with a 40-Kb
Authorized licensed use limited to: University of Electronic Science and Tech of China. Downloaded on August 13,2026 at 04:06:01 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

===== PAGE 8 =====
1704
IEEE JOURNAL OF SOLID-STATE CIRCUITS, VOL. 61, NO. 4, MARCH 2026
Fig. 15. Whole process of in-memory encoding for two neighboring LUTs in 23 cycles. The superscript of W denotes the number of the LUT, while the
subscript denotes the combination of weights.
Fig. 16. Die photograph of fabricated prototype and chip summary.
array. The test chip also includes a PLL for peak frequency
test and SRAM buﬀers for input and output data. Fig. 17
shows the testing setup, which includes the wire-bonded IC,
the custom PCB, and an FPGA serving as a bridge between
the chip and host PC. A thermoelectric heat pump controls the
chip temperature, which is monitored by the thermal imager
for retention test.
Fig. 18(a) demonstrates the voltage–frequency scaling char-
acteristics. The separated voltage domains for write driver
and computing circuits enable CIM operation at reduced
voltages down to 0.6 V with 100-MHz frequency. The peak
performance of 1.05 GHz is obtained at 1.2 V. Although
the design exhibits minor performance degradation at higher
voltages, compared to [25], due to limited discharging speed
of RVT read transistors, its area eﬃciency is maintained due
to optimized layout.
Fig. 17. Measurement setup.
Fig. 18(b) presents the 8-bit energy-eﬃciency measurements
across varying supply voltages and input bit sparsity levels,
with weight bit sparsity ﬁxed at 50%. A peak energy eﬃciency
of 49.5 TOPS/W is achieved when operating at 0.6 V with
90% input sparsity.
Note that the voltages shown in Fig. 18 and subsequent
Fig. 19 refer to the low-voltage domain of the computing
circuits and the eDRAM array, which account for more than
80% of total power consumption, as indicated in Fig. 18.
The high-voltage domain, which comprises the eDRAM write
controllers and drivers, operates at 1.1 V when computing
voltage is below 1.1 V and at 1.2 V otherwise.
Authorized licensed use limited to: University of Electronic Science and Tech of China. Downloaded on August 13,2026 at 04:06:01 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

===== PAGE 9 =====
HE et al.: AREA-EFFICIENT LUT-BASED eDRAM DIGITAL CIM MACRO FOR NEURAL NETWORK INFERENCE
1705
Fig. 18. (a) Shmoo plot and (b) voltage-eﬃciency scaling result.
Fig. 19(a) presents the number of leaked eDRAM cell
changing over time under varying temperatures at nominal
voltage. The leaked cells have a diﬀerent saturated number
under various conditions due to our optimized bias scheme.
As shown in the Monte Carlo simulation in Fig. 5, the ﬁnal
state of eDRAM cell lies between “1” and “0” as the result
of balanced leakage paths to both WBL at VDD and substrate
at VSS. For most cells, the balanced voltage is lower than
the threshold of “1,” causing them gradually decay to “0”
over time. However, for some bits, the balanced states are still
recognized at “1.” Such balanced states are sensitive to PVT
conditions, resulting in a varied distribution across diﬀerent
corners.
Fig. 19(b) further shows the retention time across diﬀerent
voltage and temperature corners. While the retention time is
degraded to 4 µs at the worst case of 0.6 V and 60 ◦C, the
eDRAM CIM macro maintains a refresh overhead less than
5%, due to the in-memory refresh technique.
Fig. 20 illustrates the detailed breakdown results. Compared
to prior digital-dominated CIM designs, the proposed archi-
tecture demonstrates a more balanced computing-storage ratio.
The bottom of the ﬁgure shows the layout of an eDRAM CIM
bank employing a sandwich-like ﬂoorplan, where adder trees
and shift-accumulation circuits occupy less than half area. For
the energy breakdown, the adder tree accounts for 49% of
the total power consumption, which is increased compared
Fig. 19. (a) Number of leaked cells at 0.9-V voltage and 25 ◦C–60 ◦C and (b)
retention time and refreshing overhead of diﬀerent voltage and temperature
corners.
Fig. 20. Area and energy breakdown of the eDRAM-LUT-based CIM macro.
with our previous implementation [25], due to glitches at
eDRAM-LUT outputs. However, the overall energy eﬃciency
is improved due to simpliﬁed eDRAM readout circuits and
control signals.
Table I compares this work with prior eDRAM- and SRAM-
based analog and digital CIM designs. The proposed design
combines the beneﬁts of eDRAM and digital CIM approaches,
oﬀering both high density and accuracy. Compared to previous
analog CIM designs, which suﬀered from the eﬃciency and
Authorized licensed use limited to: University of Electronic Science and Tech of China. Downloaded on August 13,2026 at 04:06:01 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

===== PAGE 10 =====
1706
IEEE JOURNAL OF SOLID-STATE CIRCUITS, VOL. 61, NO. 4, MARCH 2026
TABLE I
COMPARISON WITH PREVIOUS EDRAM AND SRAM CIM MACROS
TABLE II
NEURAL NETWORK PERFORMANCE AND EFFICIENCY BENCHMARKS
SNR tradeoﬀ, this work achieves higher throughput and energy
eﬃciency without compromising accuracy. Compared to other
digital CIM implementations, including standard, approximate,
and logic-LUT-based approaches, the proposed eDRAM-LUT-
based design achieves the highest area and energy eﬃciency
product at nominal voltage when normalized to 28-nm technol-
ogy node. Besides, the proposed LUT-based design achieves
a superior storage density of 2.4 Mb/mm2 in the memory
mode, leading to a 5.8× normalized density FoM. Although
the eﬀective density is reduced by 5× in CIM mode due to
expanded LUT storage, it remains 1.9× higher than that of a
12-nm logic-LUT-based design.
Table II presents the benchmarking results of the proposed
eDRAM-LUT-based macro on typical neural network models.
It achieves 215.2/394.1 µJ per image energy consumption
and 48.3/22.2 frames/s throughput for ResNet-18/ResNet-50
models on ImageNet dataset. Due to the eﬃcient in-memory
refreshing and encoding techniques, the total overhead of LUT
programming and eDRAM refreshing is below 5%.
VII. CONCLUSION
Digital-based approach is a promising candidate to imple-
ment reliable and large-scale CIM architecture, due to its
exceeding performance, robustness, and scalability. However,
the existing digital CIM solutions mainly focus on optimizing
computing logic and dataﬂow, instead of taking memory and
computing circuits as a whole.
The proposed eDRAM-LUT-based design can break the lim-
itation of digital logic and combine the beneﬁts of high-density
eDRAM cell and high-throughput digital CIM architecture.
The power and area consuming digital datapath are replaced
by eﬃcient LUT. The eDRAM-LUT-based implementation
achieves 42% and 58% area and energy reduction com-
pared to traditional digital design methodology. To overcome
the eDRAM leakage and LUT programming issues, the
in-memory refreshing and weight encoding techniques are
developed. Leveraging the parallel in-memory bandwidth, the
refreshing and programming latency are reduced by 16× and
2.9×.
A 28-nm prototype is fabricated and measured to validate
the proposed eDRAM-LUT-based CIM design. The measured
results show a peak 8-bit energy and area eﬃciency of 49.5
TOPS/W and 16.5 TOPS/mm2 with 2.4-Mb/mm2 storage
density in the memory mode. The eﬃciency FoM and density
FoM surpass previous work by 1.2× and 5.8×.
REFERENCES
[1]
Y.-H. Chen, T. Krishna, J. S. Emer, and V. Sze, “Eyeriss: An
energy-eﬃcient reconﬁgurable accelerator for deep convolutional neural
networks,” IEEE J. Solid-State Circuits, vol. 52, no. 1, pp. 127–138,
Jan. 2017.
Authorized licensed use limited to: University of Electronic Science and Tech of China. Downloaded on August 13,2026 at 04:06:01 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

===== PAGE 11 =====
HE et al.: AREA-EFFICIENT LUT-BASED eDRAM DIGITAL CIM MACRO FOR NEURAL NETWORK INFERENCE
1707
[2]
B. Moons, R. Uytterhoeven, W. Dehaene, and M. Verhelst, “Envision:
A 0.26-to-10 TOPS/W subword-parallel dynamic-voltage-accuracy-
frequency-scalable convolutional neural network processor in 28nm
FDSOI,” in IEEE Int. Solid-State Circuits Conf. (ISSCC) Dig. Tech.
Papers, Feb. 2017, pp. 246–247.
[3]
M. Horowitz, “Computing’s energy problem (and what we can do about
it),” in IEEE Int. Solid-State Circuits Conf. (ISSCC) Dig. Tech. Papers,
Feb. 2014, pp. 10–14.
[4]
R. Hameed et al., “Understanding sources of ineﬃciency in general-
purpose chips,” in Proc. 37th Annu. Int. Symp. Comput. Archit., Jun.
2010, pp. 37–47.
[5]
M. Kang, M.-S. Keel, N. R. Shanbhag, S. Eilert, and K. Curewitz,
“An energy-eﬃcient VLSI architecture for pattern recognition via deep
embedding of computation in SRAM,” in Proc. IEEE Int. Conf. Acoust.,
Speech Signal Process. (ICASSP), May 2014, pp. 8326–8330.
[6]
P. Chi et al., “PRIME: A novel processing-in-memory architecture for
neural network computation in ReRAM-based main memory,” in Proc.
ACM/IEEE 43rd Annu. Int. Symp. Comput. Archit. (ISCA), Jun. 2016,
pp. 27–39.
[7]
H. Valavi, P. J. Ramadge, E. Nestler, and N. Verma, “A 64-tile 2.4-
mb in-memory-computing CNN accelerator employing charge-domain
compute,” IEEE J. Solid-State Circuits, vol. 54, no. 6, pp. 1789–1799,
Jun. 2019.
[8]
W.-S. Khwa et al., “A 65nm 4Kb algorithm-dependent computing-in-
memory SRAM unit-macro with 2.3ns and 55.8TOPS/W fully parallel
product-sum operation for binary DNN edge processors,” in IEEE
Int. Solid-State Circuits Conf. (ISSCC) Dig. Tech. Papers, Feb. 2018,
pp. 496–498.
[9]
Q. Liu et al., “A fully integrated analog ReRAM based 78.4TOPS/W
compute-in-memory chip with fully parallel MAC computing,” in IEEE
Int. Solid-State Circuits Conf. (ISSCC) Dig. Tech. Papers, Feb. 2020,
pp. 500–502.
[10] H. Kim, Q. Chen, T. Yoo, T. T.-H. Kim, and B. Kim, “A 1–16b precision
reconﬁgurable digital in-memory computing macro featuring column-
MAC architecture and bit-serial computation,” in Proc. IEEE 45th Eur.
Solid State Circuits Conf. (ESSCIRC), Sep. 2019, pp. 345–348.
[11] Y.-D. Chih et al., “An 89TOPS/W and 16.3TOPS/mm2 all-digital
SRAM-based full-precision compute-in memory macro in 22nm for
machine-learning edge applications,” in IEEE Int. Solid-State Circuits
Conf. (ISSCC) Dig. Tech. Papers, vol. 64, Feb. 2021, pp. 252–254.
[12] X. Si et al., “A twin-8T SRAM computation-in-memory unit-macro for
multibit CNN-based AI edge processors,” in Proc. IEEE J. Solid-State
Circuits (JSSC), Apr. 2019, vol. 55, no. 1, pp. 189–202.
[13] J.-W. Su et al., “A 28nm 64Kb inference-training two-way transpose
multibit 6T SRAM compute-in-memory macro for AI edge chips,” in
IEEE Int. Solid-State Circuits Conf. (ISSCC) Dig. Tech. Papers, Feb.
2020, pp. 240–242.
[14] X. Si et al., “A 28nm 64Kb 6T SRAM computing-in-memory macro
with 8b MAC operation for AI edge chips,” in IEEE Int. Solid-State
Circuits Conf. (ISSCC) Dig. Tech. Papers, Feb. 2020, pp. 246–248.
[15] H. Fujiwara et al., “A 5-nm 254-TOPS/W 221-TOPS/mm2 fully-digital
computing-in-memory macro supporting wide-range dynamic-voltage-
frequency scaling and simultaneous MAC and write operations,” in IEEE
Int. Solid-State Circuits Conf. (ISSCC) Dig. Tech. Papers, vol. 65, Feb.
2022, pp. 1–3.
[16] H. Mori et al., “A 4nm 6163-TOPS/W/b 4790-TOPS/mm2/b SRAM
based digital-computing-in-memory macro supporting bit-width ﬂexibil-
ity and simultaneous MAC and weight update,” in IEEE Int. Solid-State
Circuits Conf. (ISSCC) Dig. Tech. Papers, Feb. 2023, pp. 132–134.
[17] H. Fujiwara et al., “A 3nm, 32.5TOPS/W, 55.0TOPS/mm2
and
3.78Mb/mm2 fully-digital compute-in-memory macro supporting INT12
× INT12 with a parallel-MAC architecture and foundry 6T-SRAM bit
cell,” in IEEE Int. Solid-State Circuits Conf. (ISSCC) Dig. Tech. Papers,
Feb. 2024, pp. 572–574.
[18] P. A. Hager et al., “Metis AIPU: A 12nm 15TOPS/W 209.6TOPS SoC
for cost- and energy-eﬃcient inference at the edge,” in IEEE Int. Solid-
State Circuits Conf. (ISSCC) Dig. Tech. Papers, Feb. 2024, pp. 212–214.
[19] M.-E. Shih et al., “NVE: A 3nm 23.2TOPS/W 12b-digital-CIM-based
neural engine for high-resolution visual-quality enhancement on smart
devices,” in IEEE Int. Solid-State Circuits Conf. (ISSCC) Dig. Tech.
Papers, Feb. 2024, pp. 360–362.
[20] S. Lee et al., “A 1ynm 1.25V 8Gb, 16Gb/s/pin GDDR6-based
accelerator-in-memory supporting 1TFLOPS MAC operation and var-
ious activation functions for deep-learning applications,” in IEEE Int.
Solid-State Circuits Conf. (ISSCC) Dig. Tech. Papers, vol. 65, Apr. 2022,
pp. 1–3.
[21] S. Lee et al., “Hardware architecture and software stack for PIM
based on commercial DRAM technology: Industrial product,” in Proc.
ACM/IEEE 48th Annu. Int. Symp. Comput. Archit. (ISCA), Jun. 2021,
pp. 43–56.
[22] Y. He et al., “A 28nm 38-to-102-TOPS/W 8b multiply-less approximate
digital SRAM compute-in-memory macro for neural-network inference,”
in IEEE Int. Solid-State Circuits Conf. (ISSCC) Dig. Tech. Papers, Feb.
2023, pp. 130–132.
[23] W. Sun et al., “A survey of computing-in-memory processor: From
circuit to application,” IEEE Open J. Solid-State Circuits Soc., vol. 4,
pp. 25–42, 2024.
[24] S. Kim et al., “DynaPlasia: An eDRAM in-memory-computing-
based
reconﬁgurable
spatial
accelerator
with
triple-mode
cell
for
dynamic
resource
switching,”
in
IEEE
Int.
Solid-
State
Circuits
Conf.
(ISSCC)
Dig.
Tech.
Papers,
Feb.
2023,
pp. 256–258.
[25] Y. He et al., “A 28nm 2.4Mb/mm2 6.9–16.3TOPS/mm2 eDRAM-LUT-
based digital-computing-in-memory macro with in-memory encoding
and refreshing,” in IEEE Int. Solid-State Circuits Conf. (ISSCC) Dig.
Tech. Papers, Feb. 2024, pp. 578–580.
[26] D. Shin, J. Lee, J. Lee, and H.-J. Yoo, “14.2 DNPU: An 8.1TOPS/W
reconﬁgurable CNN-RNN processor for general-purpose deep neural
networks,” in IEEE Int. Solid-State Circuits Conf. (ISSCC) Dig. Tech.
Papers, Feb. 2017, pp. 240–241.
[27] J. Lee, C. Kim, S. Kang, D. Shin, S. Kim, and H.-J. Yoo, “UNPU:
An energy-eﬃcient deep neural network accelerator with fully variable
weight bit precision,” IEEE J. Solid-State Circuits, vol. 54, no. 1,
pp. 173–185, Jan. 2019.
[28] C.-F.
Lee
et
al.,
“A
12nm
121-TOPS/W
41.6-TOPS/mm2
all
digital full precision SRAM-based compute-in-memory with con-
ﬁgurable
bit-width
for
AI
edge
applications,”
in
Proc.
IEEE
Symp. VLSI Technol. Circuits (VLSI Technol. Circuits), Jun. 2022,
pp. 24–25.
[29] C. Tang, X. Lin, Z. Huang, W. Sun, H. Jia, and Y. Liu, “A 28nm
4.35TOPS/mm2 transformer accelerator with basis-vector based ultra
storage compression, decomposed computation and uniﬁed LUT-assisted
cores,” in Proc. IEEE Symp. VLSI Technol. Circuits (VLSI Technol.
Circuits), Jun. 2024, pp. 1–2.
[30] S. Xie, C. Ni, A. Sayal, P. Jain, F. Hamzaoglu, and J. P. Kulka-
rni, “EDRAM-CIM: Compute-in-memory design with reconﬁgurable
embedded-dynamic-memory array realizing adaptive data convert-
ers and charge-domain computing,” in IEEE Int. Solid-State Cir-
cuits
Conf.
(ISSCC)
Dig.
Tech.
Papers,
vol. 64,
Feb.
2021,
pp. 248–250.
[31] K.
Yoshioka,
“A
818–4094
TOPS/W
capacitor-reconﬁgured
analog CIM for uniﬁed acceleration of CNNs and transformers,”
IEEE
J.
Solid-State
Circuits,
vol. 60,
no. 5,
pp. 1844–1855,
May 2024.
[32] S. Zhao et al., “Be CIM or be memory: A dual-mode-aware DNN com-
piler for CIM accelerators,” in Proc. 30th ACM Int. Conf. Architectural
Support Program. Lang. Operating Syst., Mar. 2025, pp. 63–78, doi:
10.1145/3676641.3716248.
[33] J. Song et al., “A calibration-free 15-level/cell eDRAM computing-in-
memory macro with 3T1C current-programmed dynamic-cascoded MLC
achieving 233-to-304-TOPS/W 4b MAC,” in Proc. IEEE Custom Integr.
Circuits Conf. (CICC), Apr. 2023, pp. 1–2.
[34] B. Yan et al., “A 1.041-Mb/mm2 27.38-TOPS/W signed-INT8 dynamic-
logic-based ADC-less SRAM compute-in-memory macro in 28nm with
reconﬁgurable bitwise operation for AI and embedded applications,” in
IEEE Int. Solid-State Circuits Conf. (ISSCC) Dig. Tech. Papers, vol. 65,
Feb. 2022, pp. 188–190.
[35] C.-H. Lu, Y.-T. Hsu, B.-C. Wu, and T.-T. Liu, “A 270-mV 6T SRAM
using row-based dual-phase VDD control in 28-nm CMOS,” IEEE
Trans. Circuits Syst. I, Reg. Papers, vol. 67, no. 12, pp. 4774–4783, Dec.
2020.
[36] A. Yigit, E. N. Casarrubias, R. Giterman, and A. Burg, “A 128-kbit GC-
eDRAM with negative boosted bootstrap driver for 11.3× lower-refresh
frequency at a 2.5% area overhead in 28-nm FD-SOI,” IEEE Solid-State
Circuits Lett., vol. 6, pp. 13–16, 2023.
[37] B.
Razavi,
“TSPC
logic
[a
circuit
for
all
seasons],”
IEEE
Solid
StateCircuits
Mag.,
vol. 8,
no. 4,
pp. 10–13,
Fall. 2016.
[38] Y. Li et al., “A 28 nm 0.25–0.61 mW 31-60fps versatile SoC for
diverse extreme edge ML workloads with ﬂexible hetero-fabric dataﬂow
orchestration and compute/storage-density-adjustable CIM,” in Proc.
IEEE Eur. Solid-State Electron. Res. Conf. (ESSERC), Sep. 2024,
pp. 149–152.
Authorized licensed use limited to: University of Electronic Science and Tech of China. Downloaded on August 13,2026 at 04:06:01 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

===== PAGE 12 =====
1708
IEEE JOURNAL OF SOLID-STATE CIRCUITS, VOL. 61, NO. 4, MARCH 2026
Yifan He (Member, IEEE) received the B.S. and
Ph.D. degrees from the Department of Electronic
Engineering, Tsinghua University, Beijing, China, in
2019 and 2024, respectively.
In March 2025, he works as a Post-Doctoral
Researcher at the School of Electrical and Computer
Engineering, Cornell Tech, New York, NY, USA. His
research focuses on emerging nonvolatile memories
and in-memory computing designs, with a focus on
digital circuit technology for superior eﬃciency and
compute density.
Dr. He was a recipient of the IEEE Solid-State Circuits Society (SSCS)
Predoctoral Achievement Award from 2023 to 2024.
Shupei Fan (Graduate Student Member, IEEE)
received the B.S. and M.S. degrees from Tsinghua
University, Beijing, China, in 2019 and 2025,
respectively.
His research interests include architecture designs
on CNN and transformer accelerators.
Xuan Li (Graduate Student Member, IEEE) received
the B.Eng. degree from the University of Elec-
tronic Science and Technology of China (UESTC),
Chengdu, China, in 2015. He is currently pursuing
the Ph.D. degree with Tsinghua University, Beijing,
China.
He
is
the
Founder
of
Wiener
Technology,
Beijing. His research interests include energy-
eﬃcient data converter design, mixed-signal and
analog signal processing systems, and emerging
sensing technology.
Luchang Lei (Graduate Student Member, IEEE)
received the B.S. degree in electronic science
and technology from Tsinghua University, Beijing,
China, in 2022, where he is currently pursuing the
Ph.D. degree in electronic science and technology
with the Department of Electronic Engineering.
His research interests include in-memory process-
ing architecture and circuit and hardware accelera-
tion for homomorphic encryption.
Wenbin Jia (Graduate Student Member, IEEE)
received the B.S. degree from the Department
of Electronic Engineering, Tsinghua University,
Beijing, China, in 2022, where he is currently
pursuing the Ph.D. degree.
His
research
interests
include
computing-
in-memory
circuit
design
and
3-D
integration
architectures.
Chen Tang (Member, IEEE) received the B.S.
degree from the Department of Electronic Engineer-
ing, Tsinghua University, Beijing, China, in 2020.
He is currently pursuing the Ph.D. degree.
His research interests include neural network com-
pression and machine learning accelerator.
Yaolei
Li
(Graduate
Student
Member,
IEEE)
received the B.S. degree from the Department
of Electronic Engineering, Tsinghua University,
Beijing, China, in 2021, where he is currently pur-
suing the Ph.D. degree.
His current research interests include computing-
in-memory
system
design
and
3-D
integration
architectures.
Zongle Huang (Graduate Student Member, IEEE)
received the B.S. degree from the Department
of Electronic Engineering, Tsinghua University,
Beijing, China, in 2023, where she is currently
pursuing the Ph.D. degree.
Her research interests include distributed systems
and architecture design for AI applications.
Zhike Du received the B.S. degree from the Depart-
ment of Computer Science, Beihang University,
Beijing, China, in 2005.
Since 2020, he has been working as a Hard-
ware Engineer at Tsinghua University, Beijing.
His research interests include computing-in-memory
circuits,
digital
accelerator,
and
emerging
AI
applications.
Jinshan Yue (Member, IEEE) received the B.S. and
Ph.D. degrees from the Department of Electronic
Engineering, Tsinghua University, Beijing, China,
in 2016 and 2021, respectively.
From 2021 to 2024, he was a Post-Doctoral
Researcher with the Institute of Microelectronics
of the Chinese Academy of Sciences (IMECAS),
Beijing,
where
he
is
currently
an
Associate
Researcher. His current research interests include
energy-eﬃcient
neural
network
processors,
nonvolatile
memory,
and
computing-in-memory
systems.
Dr. Yue served as a TPC Member for IEEE A-SSCC and ICCAD.
Authorized licensed use limited to: University of Electronic Science and Tech of China. Downloaded on August 13,2026 at 04:06:01 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

===== PAGE 13 =====
HE et al.: AREA-EFFICIENT LUT-BASED eDRAM DIGITAL CIM MACRO FOR NEURAL NETWORK INFERENCE
1709
Xueqing Li (Senior Member, IEEE) received the
B.S.
and
Ph.D.
degrees
from
the
Department
of Electronic Engineering, Tsinghua University,
Beijing, China, in 2007 and 2013, respectively.
He is currently an Associate Professor with the
Department of Electronic Engineering, Tsinghua
University. He has more than 170 publications and
30 China and U.S. patents. His research interests
include mixed-signal circuit design, emerging mem-
ory, and memory-oriented computing exploration for
AI acceleration.
Dr. Li is a Senior Member of CCF China. He received a few best paper
awards, including HPCA’15, ASP-DAC’17, and 2016 IEEE TMSCS, several
teaching and thesis awards, and the 2019 National Early-Career Award.
He serves as a TPC Member for a few conferences, including ISSCC,
DAC, ICCAD, DATE, and ASP-DAC. He is an Associate Editor of IEEE
TRANSACTIONS ON VERY LARGE SCALE INTEGRATION (VLSI) SYSTEMS,
IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON EMERGING TOPICS IN COMPUTING (TETC), and
Journal of Electronics and Information Technology, and a Guest Editor of
a few journal issues, including IEEE JOURNAL OF SOLID-STATE CIRCUITS
(JSSC), International Journal of Circuit Theory and Applications, and Flexible
and Printed Electronics.
Huazhong Yang (Fellow, IEEE) received the B.S.
degree in microelectronics and the M.S. and Ph.D.
degrees in electronic engineering from Tsinghua
University, Beijing, China, in 1989, 1993, and 1998,
respectively.
In 1993, he joined the Department of Electronic
Engineering, Tsinghua University, where he has
been a Full Professor since 1998. He has been
in charge of several projects, including projects
sponsored by the National Science and Technology
Major Project, the 863 Program, NSFC, and sev-
eral international research projects. He has authored or co-authored over
500 technical articles, seven books, and over 180 granted Chinese patents. His
research interests include wireless sensor networks, data converters, energy-
harvesting circuits, nonvolatile processors, and brain-inspired computing.
Prof. Yang has served as a Navigating Committee Member for AsianHOST
2018 and a TPC Member for ASP-DAC 2005, APCCAS 2006, ICCCAS
2007, ASQED 2009, and ICGCS 2010. He received the Distinguished Young
Researcher by NSFC in 2000, the Cheung Kong Scholar by Chinese Ministry
of Education (CME) in 2012, the Science and Technology Award First Prize
by China Highway and Transportation Society in 2016, the Technological
Invention Award First Prize by CME in 2019, the Gold Prize of iNEA 2019,
and several best paper awards, including ISVLSI 2012, FPGA 2017, NVMSA
2017, and ASP-DAC 2019. He has served as the Chair for the Northern
China ACM SIGDA Chapter Science in 2014 and the General Co-Chair for
ASP-DAC 2020.
Hongyang Jia (Member, IEEE) received the B.E.
degree from Tsinghua University, Beijing, China,
in 2014, and the M.A. and Ph.D. degrees from
Princeton University, Princeton, NJ, USA, in 2016
and 2021, respectively.
From 2021 to 2022, he was a Post-Doctoral
Researcher with NVIDIA, Santa Clara, CA, USA.
Since August 2022, he has been with the Department
of Electronic Engineering, Tsinghua University,
where he is currently an Assistant Professor. His
research focuses on advanced computing technolo-
gies and systems, rethinking how emerging computing fabrics can be
integrated with architectures and algorithms to enhance system eﬃciency and
performance. His primary research interests include approximate computing,
mixed-signal computing, in-memory computing, energy-eﬃcient circuits, and
architectures for robotic computing and security applications.
Prof. Jia was a recipient or a co-recipient of the 2017 Outstanding Student
Designer Award from ADI Inc., the 2022 Bede Liu Best Dissertation Award
in electrical and computer engineering from Princeton ECE, and the 2024
Edison Patent Award. He serves on the technical program committees for
ESSERC, DAC, and ICCAD Conferences.
Yongpan Liu (Senior Member, IEEE) received the
B.S., M.S., and Ph.D. degrees from Tsinghua Uni-
versity, Beijing, China, in 1999, 2002, and 2007,
respectively.
He is currently a Full Professor (Cheung Kong
Scholar) with the Department of Electronic Engi-
neering, Tsinghua University.
Prof. Liu was a Program Committee Member for
ISSCC, A-SSCC, and CICC. He has received the
40 Young Innovators Award DAC 2017, the Best
Paper/Poster Award from ASPDAC in 2017 and
2021, the Micro Top Pick 2016, HPCA 2015, and the Design Contest Awards
of ISLPED in 2012, 2013, and 2019. He served as the General Secretary
for ASPDAC 2021 and the Technical Program Chair for ICAC2023. He
was an Associate Editor of IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON COMPUTER-AIDED
DESIGN OF INTEGRATED CIRCUITS AND SYSTEMS, IEEE TRANSACTIONS
ON CIRCUITS AND SYSTEMS—II, and IET Cyber-Physical Systems. He also
served as A-SSCC2020/AICAS2022 Tutorial Speaker and an IEEE CASS
Distinguished Lecturer in 2021.
Authorized licensed use limited to: University of Electronic Science and Tech of China. Downloaded on August 13,2026 at 04:06:01 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
