===== PAGE 1 =====
2434
IEEE JOURNAL OF SOLID-STATE CIRCUITS, VOL. 60, NO. 7, JULY 2025
HUNBN, a 16-nm Digital In-Memory-Compute
SoC for Edge CNN Application
Achieving 24 TOPs/W (4b)
at System Level
Weijie Jiang , Graduate Student Member, IEEE, Cédric Caron , Prabhat Avasare, Member, IEEE,
Marc Pauwels, Marian Verhelst , Fellow, IEEE, and Wim Dehaene , Senior Member, IEEE
Abstract— This work presents HUNBN, a fully digital in-
memory-compute (DIMC) system-on-chip (SoC) implemented
using 16-nm FinFET CMOS technology. Designed for edge
convolution neural network (CNN) applications, the DIMC-based
architecture enhances energy efficiency by significantly reducing
the energy associated with static random access memory (SRAM).
At the macro level, three key techniques are employed to optimize
energy and area efficiency: 1) the adoption of a foundry-pushed
rule 6T bit-cell array; 2) a split MAC workflow; and 3)
synchronous DIMC operation. At the system level, the data move-
ment is tailored to efficiently support both CNN and transposed
CNN layers. The proposed design achieves 126 TOPS/W (4-bit
MAC) at the macro level and 24 TOPS/W at the system level,
while offering a memory density of 508 kB/mm2 and a compute
density of 1.27 K MAC units/mm2. This enables a highly energy-
efficient, scalable platform for edge CNN applications.
Index Terms— Convolution neural network (CNN), digital, in-
memory-compute (IMC), static random access memory (SRAM),
system-on-chip (SoC), U-shape network (U-Net).
I. INTRODUCTION
I
N-MEMORY-COMPUTE (IMC) is gaining increasing
attention from both academia and industry because of its
potential for higher energy efficiency, while alleviating the
memory wall bottleneck [1], [2], [3], [4], [5], [6], [7], [8], [9],
[10]. In particular, Digital IMC (DIMC) is promising, thanks
to the robustness and flexibility of digital circuits [11], [12],
[13], [14], [15], [16], [17], [18], [19]. As a result, recent focus
has shifted from Analog IMC (AIMC) toward DIMC.
Most
DIMC
chips
are
designed
with
static
random
access memory (SRAM) because of SRAM’s compatibility
with advanced CMOS technology. In [13], a fully digital
SRAM-based DIMC macro is proposed. This design integrates
Received 19 November 2024; revised 21 February 2025; accepted 25 March
2025. Date of publication 16 April 2025; date of current version 1 July
2025. This article was approved by Associate Editor Mahmut Ersin Sinangil.
(Corresponding author: Weijie Jiang.)
Weijie Jiang, Marian Verhelst, and Wim Dehaene are with the Department
of Electrical Engineering, KU
Leuven, 3001 Leuven, Belgium (e-mail:
weijie.jiang@kuleuven.be; wim.dehaene@kuleuven.be).
Cédric Caron is with Sony Europe Ltd., KT13 0XW Weybridge, U.K.
Prabhat Avasare and Marc Pauwels are with Sony Depthsensing Solutions,
1160 Brussels, Belgium.
Color versions of one or more figures in this article are available at
https://doi.org/10.1109/JSSC.2025.3557967.
Digital Object Identifier 10.1109/JSSC.2025.3557967
a NOR gate into every 6T cell to support multiplication within
the SRAM array. In [14], a DIMC macro with a customized
12T cell is proposed to support simultaneous SRAM read/write
operations. These designs achieve high throughput and fairly
high area and energy efficiency. In [16], [21], [27], data-related
techniques are proposed to further increase the macro-level
energy efficiency. These designs exploit sparsity present in AI
models, and customize the DIMC macros to support this.
With the advances in DIMC macro design, complete
integrated systems-on-chip (SoCs) are implemented to demon-
strate the capabilities of DIMC at the system level. Axelera
integrates four DIMC cores on an SoC [28], capable of
performing a 512 × 512 8b matrix multiplication in a bit-
serial fashion, with four weight sets cached locally in the
DIMC memory array. The chip achieves 15 TOPs/W for 8b
MAC operations at the macro level, while the system-level
energy efficiency is not revealed. Similarly, MediaTek inte-
grates 12 convolutional DIMC macros on a highly customized
SoC [23]. Each DIMC macro consists of 18 × 8 × 72 12b
memory cells, and is capable of performing 8 × 72 12b
MAC operations. They achieved 23.2 TOPs/W for 12b MAC
under Convolution neural network (CNN)-based workloads for
super-resolution and noise-reduction applications.
It is important to realize that achieving high system-level
energy efficiency in DIMC SoCs relies heavily on the abil-
ity to store full weight matrices on-chip. Fig. 1 presents a
comparison between the digital PE array and the DIMC array.
In the digital PE array, local registers are used to temporar-
ily store weight data, creating bottlenecks due to the high
energy demands of weight SRAM access and the excessive
number of required registers. DIMC overcomes both issues
by providing local, high-density weight storage. As noted
in [23], this approach results in a direct power saving of 28%
compared to traditional digital PE arrays. However, if local
weight storage cannot accommodate the entire workload, data
movement between the weight SRAM and the DIMC is still
necessary, negating the energy benefits offered by the DIMC
array.
In other words, to fully leverage the benefits of the DIMC
array, sufficient DIMC memory capacity is required to enable
temporal reuse of the model’s weights. Limited DIMC memory
reduces the number of neural network layers that can be stored,
0018-9200 © 2025 IEEE. All rights reserved, including rights for text and data mining, and training of artificial intelligence
and similar technologies. Personal use is permitted, but republication/redistribution requires IEEE permission.
See https://www.ieee.org/publications/rights/index.html for more information.
Authorized licensed use limited to: University of Electronic Science and Tech of China. Downloaded on August 13,2026 at 04:02:48 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

===== PAGE 2 =====
JIANG et al.: HUNBN, A 16-nm DIMC SoC FOR EDGE CNN APPLICATION ACHIEVING 24 TOPs/W (4b)
2435
Fig. 1.
Comparison between digital PE array and DIMC array.
thereby diminishing energy savings. However, this should not
come at the expense of macro-level MAC energy efficiency,
as this has a direct impact on overall system-level energy
efficiency. In fact, both of them are keys to the system-level
energy efficiency.
1) Macro-level area utilization efficiency.
2) Macro-level MAC energy efficiency.
While macro-level MAC energy efficiency is represented by
macro-level TOPs/W, area utilization efficiency at the macro
level is captured by a figure of merit (FoM) that com-
bines memory density (bytes per mm2) and MAC density
(MAC units per mm2). In this article, the FoM is defined as
(MB/mm2) × (#MAC/mm2).
Moreover, system-level energy efficiency also depends on
the DIMC array’s average utilization across model layers.
While peak macro-level efficiency is high, under-utilization in
certain layers can lower overall energy efficiency [31]. Sup-
porting all mappings eliminates under-utilization but increases
chip area, reducing area efficiency. Thus, system-level com-
parisons must evaluate both macro-level area and energy
efficiency metrics.
This work presents the HUNBN SoC, an optimized solution
designed for edge CNN applications, incorporating four key
techniques at the macro and SoC levels to enhance overall
system performance.
1) Memory Capacity Optimization: A foundry 6T bit-cell
array is employed for weight storage, significantly boost-
ing system-level memory density to 508 kB/mm2.
2) Macro Energy Efficiency Enhancement: A split-MAC
workflow, combined with synchronous DIMC operation,
is implemented at the macro level, achieving an energy
efficiency of 124 TOPs/W.
3) Supporting various types of CNN dataflow: The MAC
array is designed with an imbalanced input-to-output
dimension (32 × 3 × 3 to 32) to accommodate com-
monly used CNN layers. The array can also be
reconfigured to support 4 × 4 transposed convolution
for specific tasks.
4) Optimization for Feature Map Data Structure and Data
Movement: The system employs a linear list data struc-
ture to represent feature maps and uses a sliding window
technique to minimize input/output data movement, fur-
ther optimizing performance.
The remainder of this article is organized as follows. Section II
provides an overview of the SoC components. Section III
presents the design details of the DIMC macro. Section IV
explores data movement optimization techniques at the SoC
level. Section V discusses the measurement results under
various conditions, followed by the conclusion.
II. SYSTEM OVERVIEW
The HUNBN SoC, depicted in Fig. 2, comprises a general-
purpose RISC-V core, a DIMC cluster, and a multi-bank
input/output SRAM data memory. The input/output SRAM is
divided into three sections, labeled P1–P3, each containing
three banks of 65 kB SRAM. This configuration is specif-
ically optimized for common convolutional filters, as will
be discussed later. The input/output SRAM can be accessed
either via the AXI bus or directly from the DIMC array. The
AXI bus utilizes a lightweight read/write interface designed
for low-speed data transfers from the RISC-V core or off-
chip sources. In contrast, the DIMC array employs three
high-bandwidth stream buses to handle input activation, partial
sums, and output activation efficiently, facilitating direct data
transfer to and from the SRAM. The DIMC weight data
are directly updated via the AXI bus. While the speed and
bandwidth of DIMC weight writing are limited, this process
is assumed to be a one-time cost, which does not affect
performance during runtime.
The DIMC cluster serves as a convolutional layer accel-
erator with user-defined parameters. The input feature map
size, the number of input/output channels, the starting address
for the input/output data in SRAM, the weights in DIMC, and
the type of convolution kernel (standard or transposed) can
all be configured by the RISC-V host core. When properly
configured, a CNN layer can be executed on a configurable
subset of the 384 customized DIMC macros. These macros are
organized into 32 groups, each consisting of 12 DIMC macros.
All 32 groups share the same input activation vector, while
each group is equipped with an independent post-processing
module to handle the results produced by the DIMC macros.
Within each group, every DIMC macro features an SRAM
bit-cell array for weight storage and a local MAC unit to
perform bit-level multiply-accumulate operations. In the post-
processing module, the outputs from all macros within a group
are accumulated using two summation stages. The first-stage
Authorized licensed use limited to: University of Electronic Science and Tech of China. Downloaded on August 13,2026 at 04:02:48 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

===== PAGE 3 =====
2436
IEEE JOURNAL OF SOLID-STATE CIRCUITS, VOL. 60, NO. 7, JULY 2025
Fig. 2.
Architecture of HUNBN SoC.
summation module processes the bit-level MAC results from
each DIMC macro by shifting and adding them to form
a product-level summation of 4-bit weights and activations.
These product-level summations are then accumulated in packs
of four. Within each DIMC group, the second-stage summation
module then combines the three sums produced by the first
stage. The output of the second stage is an 18-bit full-precision
value, representing the summation of 288 (24 from DIMC
and 12 from post-processing) 4-bit by 4-bit products. It can
be either quantized into a 12-bit partial sum, accumulated
with a previous 12-bit partial sum and quantized into a 4-bit
output, or directly quantized into a 4-bit output. The partial
sum or output activation is directly stored in the data SRAM.
Additionally, a logger/debugger unit is integrated into the
cluster to monitor and control the behavior of the DIMC
cluster, ensuring accurate operation and facilitating debugging.
Details of each module will be discussed in Sections III
and IV.
III. PROPOSED DIMC MACRO
A. DIMC Macro Memory
The proposed DIMC macro utilizes a 6T SRAM bit-cell
array, consisting of 256 × 96 pushed-rule 6T bit cells. This
configuration allows the memory to store up to 256 × 24
4-bit weights. The macro features a standard SRAM access
pattern, delivering 24 4-bit weights per cycle in parallel.
It then computes the dot product between the 24-element,
4-bit weight vector and the input vector. The SoC, integrated
with 384 macros, provides a total storage capacity of 2.36 M
4-bit weights, sufficient to store entire models for most edge
CNN applications. The memory is supported by a conventional
SRAM peripheral, where the write peripheral handles memory
cell updates and pre-charges the bitline (BL) prior to read
operations. A pre-charge signal, 8, orchestrates the timing
of memory operations. Address decoding is managed by a
gray-code style decoder that converts an address into a specific
word line (WL). By leveraging the minimal transition property
of gray code, the area of the decoder is optimized, resulting
in improved area efficiency. The timing control circuit design
is simplified by exploring synchronous operations. An area
breakdown for the proposed DIMC macro is given in Fig. 3.
The remainder of this section discusses each block in further
detail.
1) Write/Read Peripheral: Unlike traditional SRAM, the
write/read peripheral in DIMC must be minimized. This
is because DIMC typically employs a very high BL to
WL ratio to enhance throughput. However, this strategy sig-
nificantly increases the replication of the write peripheral
circuitry. Consequently, even a small reduction or increase
in the area of the write peripheral has a substantial impact
on the overall area efficiency of the macro. In this work,
we explore two key differences between normal SRAM and
DIMC.
1) DIMC typically utilizes fewer WLs, resulting in sig-
nificantly lower BL parasitic compared to traditional
SRAM. Consequently, full-swing reading on the BL
in DIMC is more energy efficient than in traditional
SRAM.
2) For models that can be fully stored within the DIMC,
write operations are only required during the boot pro-
cess. This significantly reduces the need for write-assist
circuitry.
Authorized licensed use limited to: University of Electronic Science and Tech of China. Downloaded on August 13,2026 at 04:02:48 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

===== PAGE 4 =====
JIANG et al.: HUNBN, A 16-nm DIMC SoC FOR EDGE CNN APPLICATION ACHIEVING 24 TOPs/W (4b)
2437
Fig. 3.
Reviewer 2.1 circuit details of DIMC macro memory.
As illustrated in Fig. 3, the write/read peripheral functions as
a two-way multiplexer, controlled by a read enable signal (re)
that dictates the DIMC operation mode. When re is set to 0,
96 different data inputs (D[0−95]) are written into a selected
WL. Conversely, when re is set to 1, a pre-charge voltage (Vr)
is applied to the BL. The value of Vr is adaptable; for example,
a lower Vr, such as 75% of the nominal Vdd, can improve
reading speed and reduce energy consumption. However, this
also decreases cell robustness and limits the maximum voltage
that can be applied to the DIMC MAC logic. In all modes,
changes occur only when the control signal 8 is active (high).
2) Gray-Code Style Decoder: To further optimize the area
efficiency of DIMC circuitry, this work proposes a gray-code
style decoder to improve the decoder routing efficiency.
As illustrated in Fig. 4, the 8-bit address A[7−0] is partitioned
into three segments: A[7−6], A[5−3], and A[2−0]. A binary-
to-thermometer conversion module generates the enable (ENi)
signals to select one of the four blocks, each containing
64 addresses. Within each block, the addresses are further
subdivided into eight smaller tiles, selected by decoding
A[5 −3]. Within a tile, the A[0] bit functions as a special
address signal that persists for half of the duty cycle. This bit
is also encoded in gray code, ensuring only a single bit change
between consecutive WL drivers. As illustrated in Fig. 4,
the proposed gray-code decoder offers more opportunities for
gate poly contact sharing in the NAND gates compared to
the conventional binary-code decoder. This reduces layout
complexity. Moreover, it reduces the switching activities on
the WL for linear address fetching. On average, the proposed
decoder saves 50% dynamic energy compared to the baseline
binary number decoder, thanks to the minimal bit flipping.
B. DIMC MAC Logic
Fig. 5 illustrates the DIMC MAC logic. In each clock cycle,
24 4-bit weights are read from the DIMC memory, denoted
as W0 to W23. Weight bits with the same significance are
grouped together (four groups of 24 bits each), and receive
the same input activation for subsequent multiplication. Each
cycle, each of these weight bit groups, is, moreover, fed with
2 bits of the input activation to perform a 1-bit by 2-bit
multiplication. To reduce the capacitive load on each line,
both BL and BLB lines are utilized in this 1-bit by 2-bit
multiplication, each toward a different bit of the 2-bit mul-
Fig. 4.
Proposed gray-scale decoder.
tiplication result, respectively. The macro as such multiplies
24 2-bit input activations, labeled I0 to I23, with W0 to
W23. Since the weight and its inverse are read on BL and
BLB, the two bits of input activations use different signs to
ensure correct bit-level multiplication. This operation can be
repeated in a 2-bit serial way across subsequent clock cycles
for higher input precision, e.g., enabling a complete 4-bit by
4-bit MAC operation in just two clock cycles, or twice as
fast as a traditional bit-serial operation. The multiplication
results are further accumulated using a customized adder tree,
which operates in a low-voltage domain. In other words, the
Authorized licensed use limited to: University of Electronic Science and Tech of China. Downloaded on August 13,2026 at 04:02:48 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

===== PAGE 5 =====
2438
IEEE JOURNAL OF SOLID-STATE CIRCUITS, VOL. 60, NO. 7, JULY 2025
Fig. 5.
Detail of DIMC MAC logic.
DIMC MAC circuits that are connected to the BL/BLB are all
supplied by a low voltage supply. This configuration enables
the DIMC to function at a lower Vr during reading operations,
minimizing leakage issues. The summed results (SUM0 to
SUM3) are finally restored to standard digital swing levels
using static-level shifters before being processed further in
the synthesized digital domain. These level shifters increase
the macro area by only 2%.
C. DIMC Synchronous Operation Timing Diagram
To further enhance macro-level energy efficiency, we imple-
ment synchronous operations for the DIMC, reducing the
energy required for data reading within the DIMC. The timing
diagram of the DIMC macro is depicted in Fig. 6, highlighting
three primary operations: write, read/compute, and refresh.
During the weight write operation, weight data (D) is written
to the word addressed by the address A. Since the write
process inherently disrupts the memory state, the overlap
between the control signal 8 in Fig. 3 and the WL is not
a concern, enabling continuous writes over consecutive clock
cycles. In the read/compute operation, the macro reads a word
from memory and performs the MAC calculation with the 2-bit
input activation (I). In this mode, overlap between 8 and WL
is not allowed, as it could lead to destructive reading. While
traditional SRAM employs delay lines to address these issues,
robust and variation-resilient delay lines are both area- and
power-intensive, creating a significant bottleneck for DIMC
arrays with numerous macros. In this work, synchronous
reading/computing is proposed to avoid this overlap concern.
The idea is to spread the 8 and WL pulse over two different
clock cycles in a synchronous way. A pre-charge enable (pe)
signal proceeds each read operation, generating a 8 pulse to
pre-charge the BL. A read enable (re) signal follows right after,
reading the selected word onto the BL. After a read operation,
numerous compute operations can follow. Each SUM is the
MAC result of the BL weight data and a different input (I).
Since BLs are floating nodes during the compute operation,
a refresh pulse needs to be inserted on the WL after a while to
recover the values on the BL to full swing. This mechanism
does not affect throughput, as the BL values remain valid and
ce stays high during refresh. It also has minimal impact on
energy consumption, since the BL values are already close
to the read values, resulting in only a small BL voltage
Fig. 6.
Reviewer 1.4 timing diagram of the proposed DIMC macro.
change. However, this mechanism begins to degrade when
there is reduced temporal reuse of weights. The impact of this
will be examined in Section V by comparing among different
workloads.
The adoption of synchronous operation significantly reduces
the critical path delay during the read operation. Additionally,
since the DIMC MAC logic is no longer part of the critical
path, its power supply can be lowered to enhance energy
efficiency. For subsequent measurements, both the DIMC
MAC logic power supply and the pre-charge voltage (Vr) are
set to the minimum voltage level at which correct computation
results are still reliably obtained.
IV. PROPOSED SOC OPTIMIZATION TECHNIQUES
A. Split MAC Workflow
To fully exploit the efficiency and density of DIMC while
minimizing manual circuit design effort, this work introduces
a split MAC workflow. Fig. 7 compares the traditional DIMC
MAC workflow with the proposed split MAC workflow. In the
conventional DIMC approach, the manual design effort is
concentrated in two areas: the multiplier, which scales with the
precision of the weights and inputs, and the adder tree, whose
complexity is proportional to the product of the precision and
the logarithm of the number of inputs. This is because each
stage of the adder tree requires a different bit-length adder,
necessitating unique designs for each stage. In contrast, the
proposed split MAC workflow integrates the early stages of
the adder tree into the manually designed multiplication stage,
while it pushes the rest of the adder tree into the synthesized
logic. This approach offers two key advantages.
1) The most repeated components, such as early-stage
accumulation and bit-level multiplication, are fully opti-
mized using a customized circuit design flow within
DIMC. Compared to the baseline circuit implemented
using a standard digital flow, a 20% area reduction is
achieved. This gain results from customized logic gate
height and utilizing the lowest metal layer, which digital
tools cannot fully exploit. This part is treated as a hard
macro in HDL.
2) The more complex yet less reused components, includ-
ing the partial product combiner and late-stage accumu-
lation, are implemented at the RTL level using a standard
digital design flow.
Authorized licensed use limited to: University of Electronic Science and Tech of China. Downloaded on August 13,2026 at 04:02:48 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

===== PAGE 6 =====
JIANG et al.: HUNBN, A 16-nm DIMC SoC FOR EDGE CNN APPLICATION ACHIEVING 24 TOPs/W (4b)
2439
Fig. 7.
Comparison between normal DIMC MAC flow and proposed split
MAC flow.
This strategy leverages the strengths of DIMC where it yields
the most, while significantly reducing the overall design time.
B. CNN Dataflow on SoC
CNNs are widely used AI models for visual tasks such
as image recognition and segmentation. Fig. 8 illustrates the
computation flow of a CNN layer. It processes a 3-D input
tensor and a 4-D kernel tensor, performing matrix multiplica-
tion over each window of the input feature map to produce
a 3-D output tensor. Unlike traditional matrix multiplication,
adjacent output pixels share many common input pixels, which
allows for optimized data reuse and reduced data movement.
The parameters shown in Fig. 8 can vary depending on the
type of convolution layer used. The HUNBN chip supports
both normal CNN layers and transposed (up-sampling) CNN
layers, with the primary difference being the input fetch
pattern. In normal convolution, all pixels within the window
are convolved with the kernel, while in transposed convolution,
zeros are inserted to up-sample the input feature map. The
HUNBN chip also supports a wide range of layer dimensions
(IX, IY, C, K, FX, and FY) with varying temporal execution
loops. Four representative cases are illustrated below.
1) Case 1: FX = 3, FY = 3, C = 32, and K = 32. This
configuration serves as the cornerstone of all spatial
unrolling. As illustrated in Fig. 9(a), the 384 macros
are arranged in a 3 × 4 × 32 constellation, where the
FY = 3, C1 = 4, and K = 32 loops are mapped at the
cluster level. The inner C2 and FX loops of the CNN are
mapped within each macro. Since the macro performs
24 vector multiplications, up to FX = 3 and C = 8 can
be supported within a single macro. The FY, K, and
C1 loops are computed in parallel in the cluster. The
OX and OY loops, finally, are computed in the temporal
Fig. 8.
Computation of a general CNN layer.
domain, e.g., stored in input/ouput SRAM. This setup
is optimal as it efficiently utilizes exactly one DIMC
address. It also enables weight reuse at a single DIMC
address throughout the entire layer computation process,
maximizing the macro-level energy efficiency.
2) Case 2: FX = 3, FY = 3, C > 32, and K > 32. This con-
figuration extends Case 1. Here, the CNN layer requires
more than one row of each DIMC macro, leading to
storage across consecutive DIMC addresses, and an
iteration across subsets of C and K in a temporal fashion.
An example case with C = 64 and K = 64 is illustrated
in Fig. 9(b). The layer is computed using a weight-
stationary dataflow, where the K0 and C0 loops are
placed at the outer temporal loop, followed by OX and
OY. This approach offers two key benefits: 1) Reduced
Weight Reading Frequency: weight-stationary dataflow
minimizes the need for frequent weight reads, thus low-
ering the penalty from synchronous DIMC operations
and 2) Improved Input Data Reuse: by leveraging data
locality in the FX dimension through a sliding window
approach, input data reuse is enhanced.
3) Case 3: FX > 3, FY > 3, C = 32, and K = 32.
This configuration represents scenarios where the kernel
size exceeds the baseline dimensions of FX = FY = 3.
An example with FX = FY = 5 is illustrated in Fig. 9(c).
In this setup, the kernel is divided into subkernels by
segmenting the dimension by 3 and rounding up to
the nearest integer. The kernel is then split into four
parts: the upper section containing a complete 3 × 3 and
a 2 × 3 subkernel, and the lower section contains a
3 × 2 and a 2 × 2 subkernel part. These subkernels
are stored in consecutive DIMC addresses. To prevent
erroneous computations, zeros are inserted into the
memory for the smaller parts. Macros within a cluster
are categorized into highly utilized macros (shown in
gray) and less utilized macros (shown in red). Due to
the suboptimal mapping of the kernel, the performance
in this case is lower compared to Cases 1 and 2.
4) Case 4: FX = 4, FY = 4, C = 18, and K = 32. This con-
figuration represents a specific scenario where the layer
Authorized licensed use limited to: University of Electronic Science and Tech of China. Downloaded on August 13,2026 at 04:02:48 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

===== PAGE 7 =====
2440
IEEE JOURNAL OF SOLID-STATE CIRCUITS, VOL. 60, NO. 7, JULY 2025
Fig. 9.
Illustration of CNN spatial mappings: Cases 1–4 are demonstrated in (a)–(d).
is a transposed convolution layer. The DIMC macros
are organized into a 4 × 3 × 32 cluster, as shown in
Fig. 9(d). The loop parameters FY = 4, C1 = 3,
and K = 32 are mapped to the cluster, while inside
the macro, FX = 4 and C2 = 6 are mapped to the
weight vector at a single address. This spatial mapping
fully utilizes DIMC’s memory and MAC resources.
However, on HUNBN, the input channel count is usually
a multiple of 32, which misaligns with the optimal
configuration (C = 18) for the transposed convolution
layer and complicates input/output data movement man-
agement. HUNBN provides special support for these
irregular cases, which will be discussed in Section IV-C.
C. Data Movement Optimization for Input Activation
To further enhance system-level energy efficiency, the input
activation data movement from the SRAM to DIMC cluster
is optimized toward the DIMC cluster architecture. Fig. 10
illustrates the memory representation of an example input fea-
ture map. The 3-D tensor is decomposed into four hierarchical
levels to optimize memory storage and access.
At the first level, pixels across different channels are
grouped into units called PixelPacks, with each pack contain-
ing pixels from 32 different channels. For layers with more
than 32 channels, multiple PixelPacks are used to store the
pixels at a given X-/Y-coordinate. Since each pixel is a 4-bit
value, 32 pixels require 128 bits of storage, which aligns with
the word length of the input/output SRAM. As a result, the
PixelPack serves as the smallest storage unit for the feature
map.
Fig. 10.
Memory representation of an example feature map.
At the second level, PixelPacks corresponding to the
same row (y-dimension) are arranged into linear structures
called RowLists. A RowList contains the starting address and
x-length of the feature map to locate the associated PixelPacks.
For most CNN layers, this linear fetching mechanism is
sufficient, significantly simplifying memory management.
At the third level, these RowLists are further organized into
ColLists. The ColLists contain every pixel of the feature maps
in groups of 32 channels, making them the smallest operable
unit for layer-wise scheduling. For example, if a feature map
contains 64 input channels, it requires two ColLists for storage.
Authorized licensed use limited to: University of Electronic Science and Tech of China. Downloaded on August 13,2026 at 04:02:48 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

===== PAGE 8 =====
JIANG et al.: HUNBN, A 16-nm DIMC SoC FOR EDGE CNN APPLICATION ACHIEVING 24 TOPs/W (4b)
2441
Fig. 11.
Illustration of an example SRAM part configuration.
To avoid memory access conflicts, each ColList distributes
the RowLists across three separate SRAM banks, where the
location is determined by the RowList’s modulo-3 congruence.
With this configuration, three consecutive rows are distributed
across different banks, ensuring single-bank access per cycle
for an FX = FY = 3 layer.
At the fourth level, ColLists that originate from different
input channels are distributed across the SRAM. The complete
set of ColLists is referred to as the MapList, which represents
the entire feature map.
Before the convolution begins, the SRAM parts must be
configured. Fig. 11 shows an example of part assignment for
a CNN layer with C = 96. In this setup, P1 serves as the input
activation supplier, P2 as the first partial sum buffer, and P3
as the second partial sum buffer. Given C = 96, the input
activation and weight tensor require three ColLists and three
DIMC addresses. Consequently, three cluster runs are needed
to compute the output activation. During these runs, P2 and
P3 alternate roles as partial sum buffers. Data movement is
optimized differently for normal 3 × 3 convolution compared
to 4 × 4 transposed convolution.
1) Normal Convolution: Fig. 12 illustrates the data move-
ment in a typical convolution operation. For simplicity, only
run 1 and a portion of run 2 are discussed. Fig. 12(a)–(c)
depicts the data movement process for run 1.
During run 1, the base address is initially set to 0, cor-
responding to the starting address of the first RowList in
ColList 1. An x-pointer is used to address the PixelPacks in
RowList 0, RowList 1, and RowList 2, with an offset based
on the current x-coordinate. The PixelPacks are cached locally
in a three-depth register, which supplies the complete dataset
needed for one convolution. Concurrently, the same x-pointer
is used to fetch the previous partial sum from P2 and store
the current partial sum to P3. Upon completion of the first
row, the computation proceeds to the second row. As shown
in Fig. 12(b), RowLists RL1–RL3 are required. The ColList
layout ensures that no bank conflicts arise. RL1 and RL2
continue to use base address 0, while RL3’s base address is
set to 0 + IX to correctly locate RL3 in bank0. Similarly,
the partial sum is stored with an offset of 0 + IX to prevent
row data overwrite. This setup allows the computation of the
third row to proceed without bank conflict as well, as shown
in Fig. 12(c).
A portion of run 2 is illustrated in Fig. 12(d). The input
activation fetch pattern follows the same rules as in run1, with
the primary differences occurring in the output. First, while
run 1 stores the partial sum in P3, run 2 retrieves the partial
sum from P3 instead of P2. Second, partial sums are stored
using 12 bits, which do not fit within a standard PixelPack.
To address this, three PixelPacks across three banks at the
same address are combined to form an extended PixelPack for
partial sum storage. In contrast, the output activation requires
only 4 bits and thus fits within a single PixelPack in one bank.
In this case, the x-pointer is set to access the correct bank
according to the previously discussed rules, enabling seamless
integration for the computation of the next layer.
2) Transpose Convolution With FX = FY = 4: Special
support is provided for transpose convolution layers with
FX = FY = 4, introducing two key differences: 1) the
input feature map is up-sampled by inserting zeros, requiring
a more complex line-fetching mechanism and 2) the max-
imum input channels per cycle are reduced to 18, which
can now span across two PixelPacks, adding to the control
overhead. Fig. 13(a) illustrates an example of data movement.
In transposed convolution, zeros are inserted in one column,
reducing the required input data bandwidth. However, due to
the mismatch between the PixelPack C dimension and the
spatial unrolling, two PixelPack accesses may be required to
retrieve the complete set of input activations. Fortunately, with
the insertion of zeros, the frequency of new input requests is
effectively halved compared to standard convolution, as shown
in Fig. 13(c). This allows a data look-ahead mechanism to keep
the DIMC operating at the same pace as in normal convolution.
An example of this is shown in Fig. 13(d): at time t = n, input
data from the first portion of the input channels for the next
pixel are accessed from the appropriate PixelPack in ColList1.
At t = n + 1, when new pixel data is required, the second
portion is accessed from the correct PixelPack in ColList2.
Altogether, there are 16 possible fine-grain PixelPack fetching
patterns, as illustrated in Fig. 13(e). Such mechanism enables
full-speed execution of FX = FY = 4 transpose convolution.
D. Precision Control for the Partial Sum
Since a large number of values can be accumulated together,
special attention is given to handling potential overflow sit-
uations. Fig. 14 illustrates the four supported modes for
managing this. While the partial sums stored in SRAM are
limited to 12 bits, 18 bits are allocated for the original
data. The user can select the dynamic range based on the
accumulation depth of each layer. For early layers with fewer
input channels, the first 12 bits can be used for partial sums.
In deeper layers with a larger number of input channels, bits
4 through 16 can be selected to accommodate larger sums. This
approach sacrifices precision in the LSB but effectively pre-
vents overflow. In all modes, the final outputs are quantized to
4 bits whose dynamic range is compressed by a floating point
number for scaling. Since layers with more input channels are
quantized using smaller scaling factors, the impact of LSB
differences on the final output is less significant.
V. MEASUREMENT RESULTS
A. Basic Measurement
This chip is fabricated in TSMC 16-nm FinFET technol-
ogy. The chip is designed under 200-MHz sign-off speed
Authorized licensed use limited to: University of Electronic Science and Tech of China. Downloaded on August 13,2026 at 04:02:48 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

===== PAGE 9 =====
2442
IEEE JOURNAL OF SOLID-STATE CIRCUITS, VOL. 60, NO. 7, JULY 2025
Fig. 12.
Data movement for normal convolution: (a)–(c) illustrate the process of run 1, while (d) shows the differences between run 1 and run 2.
Fig. 13.
Data movement for FX = FY = 4 transpose convolution.
(a) Shows data movement of an example transposed convolution. (b) Illustrates
the mismatch problem on the C dimension. (c) Explains the existence of
dummy read cycle due to the insertion of zeros. (d) Illustrates the data
look-ahead mechanism. (e) Gives all possible PixelPack fetching pattern for
the data look-ahead mechanism.
to save power for edge applications. Fig. 15 shows the
measurement setup and a chip photograph. The total core area
is 1.9 × 1.9 mm. Fig. 16 shows the measured Shmoo plot of
four samples. The definition of failure is the occurrence of the
first error in any MAC results of all macros on one sample. All
samples can run at maximal 165 MHz at 0.88 V core voltage.
Fig. 17 shows the frequency versus efficiency plot at both
SoC level and macro level. The SoC-level energy efficiency
Fig. 14.
Precision control for large accumulation.
Fig. 15.
Measurement setup and chip photograph.
includes every energy source on-chip, excluding the IO power
domain. This work achieves 24.28 TOPs/W at system level
and 126.3 TOPs/W at macro level for purely random test data.
Table I presents a comparison with state-of-the-art solutions.
This work offers the highest on-chip IMC capacity, with a
total memory density of 508 kB/mm2. Using an FoM defined
as (MB/mm2) × (#MACs/mm2), this design achieves 0.64 K,
representing a 20% improvement over the best competitor.
The FoM indicates that our chip is optimally suited for edge
applications that prohibit off-chip DRAM access. Its superior
macro-level area utilization efficiency reduces the required
chip area for the same workload compared to other designs,
conserving valuable chip space. This area savings can be
Authorized licensed use limited to: University of Electronic Science and Tech of China. Downloaded on August 13,2026 at 04:02:48 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

===== PAGE 10 =====
JIANG et al.: HUNBN, A 16-nm DIMC SoC FOR EDGE CNN APPLICATION ACHIEVING 24 TOPs/W (4b)
2443
Fig. 16.
Shmoo plot for four measured samples.
Fig. 17.
Energy efficiency of seven measured samples under different
frequencies. The input and weight are pure random numbers.
redirected toward manufacturing cost reduction or allocated
for other critical functions.
B. Evaluation on Different Layer Type
Finally, HUHBN’s flexibility and efficiency are demon-
strated by mapping complete end-to-end workloads. Fig. 18
illustrates the equivalent energy efficiency and throughput for
convolution operations across varying feature map sizes. The
convolution kernel is fixed with dimensions FX = 3, FY = 3,
C = 32, and K = 32, while both input and weight sparsity
levels are maintained at 50%. For small feature map sizes,
the SoC experiences reduced energy efficiency and throughput
due to frequent line switching and DIMC stalling compared
Fig. 18.
Energy efficiency and throughput versus different feature map size.
Fig. 19.
Energy efficiency and throughput versus different number of input
channels and the dimension of filter FX/FY.
Fig. 20.
Replacing fully connected layer with convolution on 3 × 3 input
feature map.
to large feature map sizes. In this scenario, clock power and
static energy consumption dominate the overall power usage.
As the feature map size increases, both energy efficiency and
throughput show significant improvement. However, this gain
begins to plateau around a feature map size of 24, where the
control power overhead becomes negligible. The maximum
energy efficiency achieved is 29 TOPS/W at 0.42 TOPS.
In conclusion, unless the feature map is extremely small,
the SoC can operate at its full potential, delivering optimal
performance.
Fig. 19 illustrates the performance across different con-
volution kernels, varying in dimensions FX/FY and input
channels C, while keeping the output channel fixed at K = 32
for simplicity. A periodic pattern is observed in relation to
both the input channel count and the filter size. The SoC
operates most efficiently when the input channel count (C)
is a multiple of 32, and the filter size (FX/FY) is a multiple
Authorized licensed use limited to: University of Electronic Science and Tech of China. Downloaded on August 13,2026 at 04:02:48 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

===== PAGE 11 =====
2444
IEEE JOURNAL OF SOLID-STATE CIRCUITS, VOL. 60, NO. 7, JULY 2025
TABLE I
COMPARISON TO SOTA DIMC MACROS AND SOCS
Fig. 21.
Performance analysis for U-Net, ResNet8, MobileNetV1, and DS-CNN.
of 3. Notably, the performance significantly degrades for cases
like FX = FY = 1 (e.g., point-wise convolution), due to severe
under-utilization of the hardware resources.
C. Evaluation on Different Workloads
1) U-Net and ResNet8: A U-shape network (U-Net) model
and ResNet8 have been fully mapped onto the SoC. The U-Net
is a customized 4-bit model without significant accuracy drop
(<1%) compared to the original 8-bit model. The ResNet8
and other benchmarks are directly taken and quantized to 4b
according to [30]. Notably, the fully connected layer at the
end of ResNet8 has been replaced by a convolution layer with
dimensions FY = 3 and FX = 3, applied on a 2-D input
with X-dimension = Y-dimension = 3, as Fig. 20 shows.
This adjustment gives equivalent computations. Apparently,
such approximation results in many stalls in the system due
to the limited size of the input feature map. All subsequent
fully connected layers in the model are handled similarly to
maintain computational efficiency. Fig. 21 provides a visual of
the U-Net architecture alongside measurement data for both
U-Net and ResNet8. For the U-Net, the long skip connec-
tions are efficiently implemented on-chip. The SoC achieves
an average system-level performance of 19 TOPS/W and
Authorized licensed use limited to: University of Electronic Science and Tech of China. Downloaded on August 13,2026 at 04:02:48 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

===== PAGE 12 =====
JIANG et al.: HUNBN, A 16-nm DIMC SoC FOR EDGE CNN APPLICATION ACHIEVING 24 TOPs/W (4b)
2445
Fig. 22.
Performance analysis for deep autoencoder.
0.3 TOPS across all layers, consuming a total of 0.11 mJ per
frame at 155 frames/s. For ResNet8, we achieve an average of
13.6 TOPS/W and 0.18 TOPS specifically for the convolution
layers, with a total power consumption of 1.5 uJ per frame at
8.44 K · frames/s. The average system-level performance for
U-Net is 80% of the peak performance, and for ResNet8 is
57% of the peak performance, demonstrating the benefits of
flexible dataflow support.
2) MobileNetV1 and DS-CNN: Fig. 21 shows the mea-
surement data for MobileNetV1 [30] and DS-CNN [30]. For
MobileNetV1, this work achieves 1.9 TOPs/W and 0.02 TOPs
for MobileNetV1, and 3.7 uJ per frame at 2.88 K · frames/s.
For
DS-CNN,
this
work
achieves
2.08
TOPs/W
and
0.025 TOPs, and 5.09 uJ per frame at 2.44 K · frames/s.
Unlike U-Net and ResNet8, point-wise and depth-wise filters
dominate these models, which lead to under-utilization of the
array. This explains the efficiency gap between MobileNetV1/
DS-CNN and U-Net/ResNet8.
3) Deep Autoencoder:
Deep autoencoder [30] is also
tested on the SoC. As mentioned, all GEMM operators
are replaced with approximate convolution layers. Fig. 22
shows the measurement data for deep autoencoder. This work
achieves 0.9 TOPs/W and 5 GOPs, and 0.17 uJ per frame
at 30.8 K · frames/s.
VI. CONCLUSION
This work presents a high-density DIMC SoC designed
for edge CNN applications. By utilizing pushed-rule memory
cells, HUNBN can store the entire edge-based CNN within
the DIMC memory, significantly reducing energy costs asso-
ciated with frequent on-chip weight loading. More importantly,
through innovative DIMC operation techniques and a cus-
tomized dataflow, HUNBN maximizes data reuse in CNNs,
achieving exceptional energy efficiency and throughput. As a
result, we achieve an SoC energy efficiency of 24 TOPs/W for
edge CNN models. Furthermore, the performance is adaptable
to other models, thanks to the high area utilization ratio and
the built-in dataflow flexibility of the DIMC processor.
REFERENCES
[1] S. Yin, Z. Jiang, J.-S. Seo, and M. Seok, “XNOR-SRAM: In-memory
computing SRAM macro for binary/ternary deep neural networks,” IEEE
J. Solid-State Circuits, vol. 55, no. 6, pp. 1733–1743, Jun. 2020.
[2] Z. Jiang, S. Yin, J.-S. Seo, and M. Seok, “C3SRAM: An in-memory-
computing SRAM macro based on robust capacitive coupling computing
mechanism,” IEEE J. Solid-State Circuits, vol. 55, no. 7, pp. 1888–1897,
Jul. 2020.
[3] A. Biswas and A. P. Chandrakasan, “CONV-SRAM: An energy-efficient
SRAM with in-memory dot-product computation for low-power convo-
lutional neural networks,” IEEE J. Solid-State Circuits, vol. 54, no. 1,
pp. 217–230, Jan. 2019.
[4] N. Verma et al., “In-memory computing: Advances and prospects,” IEEE
Solid-State Circuits Mag., vol. 11, no. 3, pp. 43–55, Aug. 2019.
[5] H. Jia et al., “Scalable and programmable neural network inference
accelerator based on in-memory computing,” IEEE J. Solid-State Cir-
cuits, vol. 57, no. 1, pp. 198–211, Jan. 2022.
[6] A. Sebastian, M. Le Gallo, R. Khaddam-Aljameh, and E. Eleftheriou,
“Memory devices and applications for in-memory computing,” Nature
Nanotechnol., vol. 15, no. 7, pp. 529–544, Jul. 2020.
[7] H. Dbouk, S. K. Gonugondla, C. Sakr, and N. R. Shanbhag, “A
0.44-µJ/dec, 39.9-µs/dec, recurrent attention in-memory processor for
keyword spotting,” IEEE J. Solid-State Circuits, vol. 56, no. 7, pp. 2234–
2244, Jul. 2021.
[8] J.-W. Su et al., “Two-way transpose multibit 6T SRAM computing-in-
memory macro for inference-training AI edge chips,” IEEE J. Solid-State
Circuits, vol. 57, no. 2, pp. 609–624, Feb. 2022.
[9] J.-S. Seo et al., “Digital versus analog artificial intelligence accelerators:
Advances, trends, and emerging designs,” IEEE Solid StateCircuits
Mag., vol. 14, no. 3, pp. 65–79, May 2022.
[10] B. Zhang et al., “A 177 TOPS/W, capacitor-based in-memory computing
SRAM macro with stepwise-charging/discharging DACs and sparsity-
optimized bitcells for 4-bit deep convolutional neural networks,” in Proc.
IEEE Custom Integr. Circuits Conf. (CICC), Apr. 2022, pp. 1–2.
[11] J. Wang et al., “A 28-nm compute SRAM with bit-serial logic/arithmetic
operations for programmable in-memory vector computing,” IEEE J.
Solid-State Circuits, vol. 55, no. 1, pp. 76–86, Jan. 2020.
[12] H. Kim, T. Yoo, T. T. Kim, and B. Kim, “Colonnade: A reconfig-
urable SRAM-based digital bit-serial compute-in-memory macro for
processing neural networks,” IEEE J. Solid-State Circuits, vol. 56, no. 7,
pp. 2221–2233, Jul. 2021.
[13] Y.-D. Chih et al., “An 89 TOPS/W and 16.3 TOPS/mm2 all-digital
SRAM-based full-precision compute-in memory macro in 22 nm
for machine-learning edge applications,” in IEEE Int. Solid-State
Circuits Conf. (ISSCC) Dig. Tech. Papers, vol. 64, Feb. 2021,
pp. 252–254.
[14] H. Fujiwara et al., “A 5-nm 254-TOPS/W 221-TOPS/mm2 fully-digital
computing-in-memory macro supporting wide-range dynamic-voltage-
frequency scaling and simultaneous MAC and write operations,” in
Proc. IEEE Int. Solid- State Circuits Conf. (ISSCC), vol. 65, Feb. 2022,
pp. 1–3.
[15] C.-F.
Lee
et
al.,
“A
12nm
121-TOPS/W
41.6-TOPS/mm2
all
digital full precision SRAM-based compute-in-memory with con-
figurable
bit-width
for
AI
edge
applications,”
in
Proc.
IEEE
Symp. VLSI Technol. Circuits (VLSI Technol. Circuits), Jun. 2022,
pp. 24–25.
[16] F. Tu et al., “A 28 nm 29.2 TFLOPS/W BF16 and 36.5 TOPS/W
INT8 reconfigurable digital CIM processor with unified FP/INT pipeline
and bitwise in-memory booth multiplication for cloud deep learning
acceleration,” in IEEE Int. Solid-State Circuits Conf. (ISSCC) Dig.
Tech. Papers, vol. 65, Feb. 2022, pp. 1–3.
[17] B. Yan et al., “A 1.041-Mb/mm2 27.38-TOPS/W signed-INT8 dynamic-
logic-based ADC-less SRAM compute-in-memory macro in 28nm with
reconfigurable bitwise operation for AI and embedded applications,” in
IEEE Int. Solid-State Circuits Conf. (ISSCC) Dig. Tech. Papers, vol. 65,
Feb. 2022, pp. 188–190.
[18] Y. He et al., “A 28 nm 38-to-102-TOPS/W 8b multiply-less approximate
digital SRAM compute-in-memory macro for neural-network inference,”
in IEEE Int. Solid-State Circuits Conf. (ISSCC) Dig. Tech. Papers,
Feb. 2023, pp. 130–132.
[19] Z. Yue et al., “7.7 CV-CIM: A 28 nm XOR-derived similarity-aware
computation-in-memory for cost-volume construction,” in IEEE Int.
Solid-State Circuits Conf. (ISSCC) Dig. Tech. Papers, Feb. 2023,
pp. 138–139.
[20] J. Yue et al., “A 5.6–89.9TOPS/W heterogeneous computing-in-memory
SoC with high-utilization producer-consumer architecture and high-
frequency read-free CIM macro,” in Proc. Symp. VLSI Technol. Circuits
(VLSI Technol. Circuits), 2023, pp. 1–2.
Authorized licensed use limited to: University of Electronic Science and Tech of China. Downloaded on August 13,2026 at 04:02:48 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

===== PAGE 13 =====
2446
IEEE JOURNAL OF SOLID-STATE CIRCUITS, VOL. 60, NO. 7, JULY 2025
[21] J. Yue et al., “A 28nm 16.9–300TOPS/W computing-in-memory proces-
sor supporting floating-point NN inference/training with intensive-CIM
sparse-digital architecture,” in IEEE Int. Solid-State Circuits Conf.
(ISSCC) Dig. Tech. Papers, San Francisco, CA, USA, Jun. 2023, pp. 1–3.
[22] G. Desoli et al., “16.7 a 40–310TOPS/W SRAM-based all-digital up to
4b in-memory computing multi-tiled NN accelerator in FD-SOI 18nm
for deep-learning edge applications,” in IEEE Int. Solid-State Circuits
Conf. (ISSCC) Dig. Tech. Papers, San Francisco, CA, USA, Feb. 2023,
pp. 260–262.
[23] M.-E. Shih et al., “20.1 NVE: A 3nm 23.2TOPS/W 12b-digital-CIM-
based neural engine for high-resolution visual-quality enhancement on
smart devices,” in IEEE Int. Solid-State Circuits Conf. (ISSCC) Dig.
Tech. Papers, San Francisco, CA, USA, Feb. 2024, pp. 360–362.
[24] K. Goetschalckx and M. Verhelst, “DepFiN: A 12 nm, 3.8TOPs depth-
first CNN processor for high res. image processing,” in Proc. Symp. VLSI
Circuits, 2021, pp. 1–2.
[25] J. S. Park et al., “A multi-mode 8K-MAC HW-utilization-aware neural
processing unit with a unified multi-precision datapath in 4 nm flagship
mobile SoC,” in IEEE Int. Solid-State Circuits Conf. Dig. Tech. Papers,
Feb. 2022, pp. 246–248.
[26] C.-Y. Du et al., “A 28 nm 11.2TOPS/W hardware-utilization-aware
neural-network accelerator with dynamic dataflow,” in IEEE Int. Solid-
State Circuits Conf. (ISSCC) Dig. Tech. Papers, San Francisco, CA,
USA, Feb. 2023, pp. 1–3.
[27] R. Guo et al., “20.2 a 28nm 74.34TFLOPS/W BF16 heterogenous CIM-
based accelerator exploiting denoising-similarity for diffusion models,”
in IEEE Int. Solid-State Circuits Conf. (ISSCC) Dig. Tech. Papers,
Feb. 2024, pp. 362–364.
[28] P. A. Hager et al., “11.3 metis AIPU: A 12 nm 15TOPS/W 209.6TOPS
SoC for Cost- and energy-efficient inference at the edge,” in IEEE
Int. Solid-State Circuits Conf. (ISSCC) Dig. Tech. Papers, Feb. 2024,
pp. 212–214.
[29] H. Mori et al., “A 4 nm 6163-TOPS/W/b 4790-TOPS/mm2/b SRAM
based digital-computing-in-memory macro supporting bit-width flexibil-
ity and simultaneous MAC and weight update,” in IEEE Int. Solid-State
Circuits Conf. (ISSCC) Dig. Tech. Papers, Feb. 2023, pp. 132–134.
[30] C. Banbury et al., “MLPerf tiny benchmark,” 2021, arXiv:2106.07597.
[31] H. E. Sumbul, J.-S. Seo, D. H. Morris, and E. Beigne, “A fully dig-
ital and row-pipelined compute-in-memory neural network accelerator
with system-on-chip-level benchmarking for augmented/virtual reality
applications,” IEEE Micro, vol. 44, no. 2, pp. 61–70, Mar. 2024.
[32] W. Jiang, C. Caron, P. Avasare, M. Pauwels, M. Verhelst, and
W. Dehaene, “HUNBN, a 1.77MB digital in-memory-compute SoC for
edge applications achieving 126 TOPs/W (4b) at macro level and 24
TOPs/W at SoC level,” in Proc. IEEE Eur. Solid-State Electron. Res.
Conf. (ESSERC), Bruges, Belgium, Sep. 2024, pp. 137–140.
Weijie Jiang (Graduate Student Member, IEEE) was
born in Hubei, China, in 1996. He received the
bachelor’s degree in microelectronics from Shanghai
Jiao Tong University, Shanghai, China, in 2018,
and the master’s degree in electronic engineering
from KU Leuven (Katholieke Universiteit Leuven),
Leuven, Belgium, in 2020, where he is currently
pursuing the Ph.D. degree in static random access
memory (SRAM) and in-memory-compute circuit
design under the supervision of Prof. Wim Dehaene.
Cédric Caron received the bachelor’s degree from
French Engineering School, ESCPE Lyon, Lyon,
France, in 2007.
He is a Chief Engineer with Sony Europe Ltd.,
Weybridge, U.K. He began his career in December
2010 at Optrima, Brussels, Belgium, a Belgian
start-up specializing in 3-D imaging, before join-
ing SoftKinetic, Brussels, in 2011. In 2016, Sony
Semiconductors Solutions acquired SoftKinetic to
transition it to Sony Depthsensing Solutions. Since
2017, he has been contributing to advancements in
hardware–software co-optimization for neural network accelerators at Sony.
His professional journey has consistently revolved around the intersection of
hardware and software. He started as an embedded software engineer, devel-
oping the software required to operate time-of-flight cameras. He joined the
Strategic Research Department, Sony Depthsensing Solutions, in 2017, with
a focus on leveraging co-optimization techniques to enhance the performance
and efficiency of neural network accelerators.
Prabhat Avasare (Member, IEEE) received the
Bachelor of Technology degree in electrical engi-
neering from Indian Institute of Technology (Bom-
bay), Mumbai, India, in 1991.
From 1991 to 1996, he was with Tata Research
Center,
India,
and
IMEC,
Leuven,
Belgium,
from 1996 to 2013. In 2013, he joined SoftKinetic,
Brussels, Belgium, a Belgian start-up specializing
in 3-D imaging solutions. In 2016, Sony Semicon-
ductors Solutions acquired SoftKinetic to transition
it to Sony Depthsensing Solutions, where he is
currently a member of the Technical Staff. He has more than 33 years of
experience in Industrial Research and Development—in wide-ranging areas
in computer science and electrical engineering such as compiler optimizations,
operating systems, hardware–software co-design, reconfigurable hardware,
processor architectures, multiobjective optimizations, time-of-flight sensors,
and low-power embedded platforms.
Marc Pauwels received the M.Eng. degree in micro-
electronics from KU Leuven, Leuven, Belgium,
in 1984.
He joined IMEC, Leuven, to do research in VLSI
system-on-chip
design
methodologies.
In
2010,
he joined Optrima, Brussels, Belgium (later Soft-
kinetic), as a VP of Engineering to develop it
from a small start-up into a Research and Devel-
opment Organization designing full-stack solutions
(with depth-sensing ICs, camera hardware/software
processing, up to computer vision software and user-
experience). He supported the integration process of Softkinetic into Sony
and has been part of the director team at Sony Depthsensing Solutions
(SDS), with a focus on research and product development. He is currently
the Research and Development Director with SDS. His research interests
include hardware/software co-design and bringing innovation into product
development.
Marian Verhelst (Fellow, IEEE) received the Ph.D.
degree from KU Leuven, Leuven, Belgium, in 2008.
She worked as a Research Scientist at Intel Labs,
from 2008 to 2010. She is a Professor with the
MICAS Laboratory, KU Leuven, and the Research
Director with IMEC, Leuven. Her research focuses
on embedded machine learning, hardware accelera-
tors, and low-power edge processing.
Dr. Verhelst received the Laureate Prize of the
Royal Academy of Belgium in 2016, the 2021 Intel
Outstanding Researcher Award, and the André Mis-
chke YAE Prize for Science and Policy in 2021. She is a scientific advisor to
multiple startups, a member of the board of ECSA, and served on the Board of
Directors of tinyML. She is a Science Communication Enthusiast as an IEEE
SSCS Distinguished Lecturer, a Regular Member of the Nerdland Science
Podcast (Dutch), and the Founding Mother of KU Leuven’s Innovation Lab
High School Program.
Wim Dehaene (Senior Member, IEEE) received
the master’s and Ph.D. degrees from KU Leuven,
Leuven, Belgium, in 1991 and 1996, respectively.
In-memory-compute is an integral part of this. Part
of his research is performed in cooperation with
IMEC, Leuven, where he is also a part-time Prin-
cipal Scientist. He is also leading the circuit design
aspects in several biomedical IC design projects.
He is currently a Full Professor and the Head of the
MICAS Division, KU Leuven. His research domain
is the circuit-level design of digital circuits. His
research interests include ultralow-power signal processing and memories in
advanced CMOS technologies.
Dr. Dehaene is a member of the ESSERC Steering Committee. He was the
General Chair of ESSERC 2024. He has also served for several years on the
ISSCC Program Committee.
Authorized licensed use limited to: University of Electronic Science and Tech of China. Downloaded on August 13,2026 at 04:02:48 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
