===== PAGE 1 =====
734
IEEE JOURNAL OF SOLID-STATE CIRCUITS, VOL. 60, NO. 2, FEBRUARY 2025
TensorCIM: Digital Computing-in-Memory Tensor
Processor With Multichip-Module-Based
Architecture for Beyond-NN Acceleration
Yiqi Wang , Graduate Student Member, IEEE, Zihan Wu, Weiwei Wu , Leibo Liu , Senior Member, IEEE,
Yang Hu , Member, IEEE, Shaojun Wei , Fellow, IEEE, Fengbin Tu , Member, IEEE,
and Shouyi Yin , Senior Member, IEEE
Abstract— While neural networks (NNs) have achieved great
results in various intelligent tasks like image classification and
speech recognition, real-world scenarios have more applications
beyond just NN processing like graph convolutional network
(GCN) and deep-learning recommendation model (DLRM),
which typically consist of sparse gathering (SpG) and sparse
algebra (SpA). Their large application size leads to substantial
data movement. Although the fusion of digital computing-in-
memory (CIM) and multichip-module (MCM) can reduce data
movement efficiently and scale out CIM’s capacity in a high-
yield solution, the MCM-CIM system raises new challenges for
beyond-NN acceleration: SpG involves repeated off-chip DRAM
access, interchiplet access, and redundant reduction operations;
SpA suffers from inter-CIM workload imbalance and intra-
CIM under-utilization. Thus, we design TensorCIM as the CIM
processor chiplet with three corresponding features: 1) the
redundancy-eliminated gathering manager (REGM) dynamically
maintains frequently accessed features and reduction results in
the CIM to eliminate redundant accesses and reductions; 2) the
equal operation-based CIM initializer (EOCI) calculates effective
multiply-accumulation (MAC) operations and initializes CIM
macros with a balanced inter-CIM workload at the subarray
level; and 3) the input-lookahead CIM (ILA-CIM) architecture
looks ahead at future inputs to fully utilize CIM logic. The
fabricated MCM-CIM system consumes only 3.7 nJ/Gather for
the GCN model, achieving 8.3-TFLOPS/W algebra efficiency at
FP32.
Index Terms— Computing-in-memory (CIM), floating-point,
graph neural network (NN), multichip-module (MCM), recom-
mendation system, sparsity.
Manuscript
received
17
January
2024;
revised
8
April
2024;
accepted 24 May 2024. Date of publication 13 June 2024; date of
current version 30 January 2025. This article was approved by Associate
Editor Priyanka Raina. This work was supported in part by the National
Key Research and Development Program under Grant 2018YFB2202600,
in part by the NSFC under Grant U19B2041 and Grant 61774094,
in part by the Beijing Science and Technology (S&T) Project under Grant
Z191100007519016, and in part by the Beijing Innovation Center for Future
Chip. (Corresponding authors: Fengbin Tu; Shouyi Yin.)
Yiqi Wang, Zihan Wu, Weiwei Wu, Leibo Liu, Yang Hu, Shaojun Wei,
and Shouyi Yin are with the School of Integrated Circuits, Beijing Innovation
Center for Future Chip, and Beijing National Research Center for Information
Science and Technology, Tsinghua University, Beijing 100084, China (e-mail:
yinsy@tsinghua.edu.cn).
Fengbin Tu is with the Department of Electronic and Computer Engineering,
The Hong Kong University of Science and Technology, Hong Kong, China
(e-mail: fengbintu@ust.hk).
Color versions of one or more figures in this article are available at
https://doi.org/10.1109/JSSC.2024.3406569.
Digital Object Identifier 10.1109/JSSC.2024.3406569
I. INTRODUCTION
W
HILE neural networks (NNs) have achieved great
results in various intelligent tasks [10], real-world
scenarios have more applications that have computational and
data-movement requirements beyond those seen in typical
NN processing, like graph convolutional network (GCN) [8]
for graph-based learning and deep-learning recommendation
model (DLRM) [14] for recommendation (see Fig. 1). GCN
aggregates features on a large graph and then performs an NN-
based combination. DLRM gathers and reduces items from
an embedding table and generates recommendation results via
fully connected layers. However, prior artificial intelligence
(AI) chip research focuses on NN-only applications, and we
demand a new architecture for beyond-NN acceleration.
To realize efficient beyond-NN acceleration, we first analyze
the workload features of beyond-NN applications. Beyond-
NN applications typically consist of sparse gathering (SpG)
and sparse algebra (SpA). SpG gathers and reduces tensors
from sparsely distributed addresses, like GCN’s aggregation
phase and DLRM’s embedding layer. SpA refers to NN-based
sparse tensor multiplication for the gathered tensors (GTs) like
GCN’s combination phase and DLRM’s fully-connected (FC)
layer. Besides, due to the large application size, data movement
is the main bottleneck for beyond-NN acceleration, and FP32
precision is usually required for high accuracy.
Our solution for beyond-NN applications is the fusion of
digital computing-in-memory (CIM) and multichip-module
(MCM), which reduces data movement while maintaining
high precision and accommodates large application sizes,
respectively. In the past few years, digital CIM has proven
to be an efficient and precise architecture for reducing data
movement [4], [5], [13], [16], [19], [20]. The large-scale
beyond-NN applications bring huge computational and storage
requirements and motivate the demand for scaling out digital
CIM processors. MCM provides a high-yield scalable solu-
tion for CIM scaling by integrating multiple chiplets in one
package to build an MCM-CIM system [15], [28], [29].
Fig. 2 shows a typical MCM-CIM system with four CIM
chiplets. In our MCM-CIM system, workloads are parti-
tioned to each chiplet. The CIM chiplet mainly relies on its
own DRAM channel to perform SpG and SpA. The MCM
architecture enlarges CIM capacity. Intermediate data are
0018-9200 © 2024 IEEE. Personal use is permitted, but republication/redistribution requires IEEE permission.
See https://www.ieee.org/publications/rights/index.html for more information.
Authorized licensed use limited to: University of Electronic Science and Tech of China. Downloaded on August 13,2026 at 03:59:19 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

===== PAGE 2 =====
WANG et al.: TensorCIM: DIGITAL COMPUTING-IN-MEMORY TENSOR PROCESSOR
735
Fig. 1.
Two typical beyond-NN applications: GCN and DLRM.
Fig. 2.
MCM-CIM system with four CIM chiplets in the SpG and SpA
modes.
communicated with limited interchiplet bandwidth. In beyond-
NN acceleration, all chiplets are first configured in the SpG
mode, fetching feature tensors from DRAM according to the
access tensor in the input buffer. The chiplet performs feature
reduction and stores the GTs in the global buffer. Then, all
chiplets are configured in the SpA mode and initialize their
CIM with weight tensors (WTs). The input buffer loads the
GTs and feeds them to the CIM for computation. However,
the MCM-CIM system raises new challenges for beyond-NN
acceleration in both the SpG and SpA modes (see Fig. 3).
1) Challenge1 (SpG, Redundancy): SpG has strong gather
and reduction locality [2], [6], [7], [12]. For instance,
accesses to a large embedding table are often located
in a small group of items in recommendation sys-
tems, and there are frequently occurred combinations
of items among the users. Thus, SpG involves repeated
off-chip DRAM access, interchiplet access, and redun-
dant reduction operations (e.g., repeated accessed feature
f0, f2, and f3, and repeated computed f2 + f3). This
will increase interchiplet bandwidth requirements and
latency.
2) Challenge2a (SpA, CIM Initialization): During CIM
initialization, irregular tensor sparsity leads to differ-
ent effective multiply-accumulation (MAC) operations
across CIM macros. As shown in the example, CIM0
has fewer MAC operations than CIM1. The inter-CIM
workload imbalance makes different CIMs have differ-
ent computation times, leading to computation resource
idleness.
3) Challenge2b (SpA, CIM Computation): Although bal-
anced CIM initialization can mitigate Challenge2a, there
are still idle CIM subarrays during computation. Con-
ventionally, each CIM can only process one input row at
a time. However, the current input row may only activate
part of the array (like CIM1 at time step 0) due to the
irregular tensor sparsity, which lowers MAC utilization.
This article proposes TensorCIM as the CIM processor
chiplet, with jointly optimized SpG, SpA’s CIM initialization,
and SpA’s CIM computation. TensorCIM overcomes the above
challenges of the MCM-CIM system with the following fea-
tures in one chiplet.
1) For Challenge1, in the SpG mode, the access tensor
and SpG workload are repartitioned to maximize fea-
ture locality and minimize interchiplet access. Instead
of directly accessing all feature tensors from DRAM
or other chiplets, we design a Redundancy-Eliminated
Gathering Manager (REGM) to dynamically maintain
frequently accessed features and reduction results in the
CIM for better data reuse. This eliminates redundant
accesses and reductions, lowering interchip bandwidth
requirements.
2) For Challenge2a, in the SpA mode, before CIM compu-
tation, we use an Equal Operation-based CIM Initializer
(EOCI) to calculate effective MAC operations based
on the nonzero distribution of GT and WT, initializing
CIM macros with a balanced inter-CIM workload at the
subarray level.
3) For Challenge2b, we exploit an Input-LookAhead CIM
(ILA-CIM) architecture to look ahead at future inputs to
fully utilize CIM logic, keeping all CIM subarrays busy
to lower computation latency.
This article is the journal extension version of our ISSCC’23
work [17], providing higher-level insights to readers with
many additional materials. The rest of this article is organized
as follows. Section II provides background and motivation.
Section III proposes TensorCIM’s overall architecture. The
three architecture features are described in Sections IV–VI,
respectively. Section VII presents our experimental results on
the 28-nm TensorCIM processor and four-chiplet MCM-CIM
system. Section VIII concludes this article.
II. BACKGROUND AND MOTIVATION
A. Beyond-NN Applications
NNs such as convolutional NNs and recurrent NNs have
achieved great results in intelligent tasks like image classifica-
tion, speech recognition, and natural language processing [10].
The image, audio, and text data in these tasks have regular
structures that are friendly to NNs. However, real-world data
has more irregular structures like graphs or embedding tables
in social network analysis, knowledge graphs, and recom-
mendation systems. SpG is usually required to gather feature
Authorized licensed use limited to: University of Electronic Science and Tech of China. Downloaded on August 13,2026 at 03:59:19 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

===== PAGE 3 =====
736
IEEE JOURNAL OF SOLID-STATE CIRCUITS, VOL. 60, NO. 2, FEBRUARY 2025
Fig. 3.
MCM-CIM system raises new challenges for beyond-NN acceleration in both the SpG and SpA modes. TensorCIM has corresponding features that
target the challenges: REGM, EOCI, and ILA-CIM.
Fig. 4.
AI processor architectures. (a) Digital architecture. (b) Digital CIM.
information from these irregular structures before typical NN
processing, which takes sparse indices as inputs to index (ID)
corresponding features and reduces them together to generate
reduction results.
We can call these real-world data processing problems
beyond NN applications, which have computational and
data-movement requirements beyond those seen in typical NN
processing. Beyond-NN applications like GCN and DLRM are
widely used in more general AI scenarios [9], [22], as shown in
Fig. 1. Both GCN and DLRM can be summarized as two parts:
SpG and SpA. In GCN, the feature vector of each vertex,
is computed by recursively aggregating and transforming the
feature vectors of its neighbor vertices. The aggregation phase
involves gathering and reducing sparsely distributed feature
vectors from the feature matrix, followed by the NN-based
combination phase. The aggregation phase is SpG, and the
combination phase is SpA. In DLRM, the embedding gather
operations first perform embedding table lookups for the previ-
ously interacted items. Then, embedding reduction operations
perform element-wise summations of item vectors gathered
from the embedding table. The reduction results are multiplied
with WTs in fully connected layers to generate the final
recommendation results. The embedding layer is SpG, and the
fully connected layer is SpA.
B. Digital CIM
As shown in Fig. 4(a) and (b), compared to digital architec-
tures with discrete MAC units and memory [1], [3], [11], [18],
[24], digital CIM integrates bitwise digital MAC to SRAM,
which has proven to be a promising architecture that achieves
high efficiency and high accuracy [4], [5], [13], [16], [19],
[20]. Besides, its power-performance-area (PPA) scales well
with technology scaling [4], [5], [13]. The digital CIM works
usually customize each SRAM cell with an additional two-
input NOR for bitwise multiplication and place digital adders
near the SRAM array for partial sum accumulation. In this
way, digital CIM fuses the benefits of digital architectures
and CIM: Integrating computing into memory achieves high
efficiency; Digital in-memory logic avoids analog nonideality
of conventional analog CIM and guarantees high accuracy.
C. Multichip-Module
Although CIM can efficiently reduce on-chip data move-
ment, it is challenging to store all required data inside one
chip for beyond-NN acceleration due to its large application
size. Consequently, the data in CIM needs to be dumped
and reloaded from the DRAM, which is a bottleneck toward
high energy efficiency. This motivates the demand for scaling
out CIM’s capacity. MCM provides a high-yield scalable
solution for CIM scaling by integrating multiple chiplets in
one package [15], [28], [29]. Compared to a large monolithic
die, MCMs can reduce fabrication costs, as a system can mix
chiplets from different process nodes to improve design reuse.
In addition, the acceleration of different scales of AI models
can be achieved merely by adjusting the number of chiplets
placed in a package [28].
D. Motivation of TensorCIM
The MCM-CIM system scales out digital CIM’s capacity
but also raises new challenges for beyond-NN acceleration.
As summarized in Section I, the challenges lead to repeated
feature accesses and reduction operations in the SpG mode,
and low CIM utilization that harms the energy efficiency
in the SpA mode. In this article, we will discuss how to
overcome the challenges of the MCM-CIM system with
the three features in the TensorCIM chiplet, for compre-
hensive beyond-NN acceleration. For SpG, the gather and
reduction locality is exploited to eliminate redundant feature
accesses and reductions (REGM, Feature1). For SpA, the joint
Authorized licensed use limited to: University of Electronic Science and Tech of China. Downloaded on August 13,2026 at 03:59:19 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

===== PAGE 4 =====
WANG et al.: TensorCIM: DIGITAL COMPUTING-IN-MEMORY TENSOR PROCESSOR
737
Fig. 5.
TensorCIM processor’s overall architecture, with three configurations
for the SpG mode, the SpA mode’s CIM initialization, and the SpA mode’s
CIM computation.
optimization of workload distribution in CIM initialization
(EOCI, Feature2) and workload execution in CIM com-
putation (ILA-CIM, Feature3) is studied to improve CIM
utilization.
III. TENSORCIM PROCESSOR ARCHITECTURE
The TensorCIM processor’s overall architecture is shown
in Fig. 5, with three features highlighted in different col-
ors. It consists of eight ILA-CIM cores with eight REGMs,
an EOCI, a 256-kB input buffer, a 256-kB global buffer, a sin-
gle instruction multiple data (SIMD) core, and a top controller.
The arrows indicate three types of dataflows in TensorCIM:
CIM gathering that dynamically maintains frequently-accessed
data in the SpG mode; CIM initialization that initializes CIM
with balanced inter-CIM workload in the SpA mode; CIM
computation that feeds input to CIM with good intra-CIM
utilization in the SpA mode.
TensorCIM has different configurations for the SpG mode,
the SpA mode’s CIM initialization, and the SpA mode’s CIM
computation. The different modes reuse the same datapath to
save hardware resources. In beyond-NN acceleration, Tensor-
CIM is first configured in the SpG mode, fetching feature
tensors from DRAM according to the access tensor in the input
buffer. The access tensor is also sent to the REGM to find the
frequently accessed features and reduction results. Each CIM
core performs feature reduction and maintains features and
reduction results managed by its REGM. The GTs are stored
in the global buffer. Then, TensorCIM is configured in the SpA
mode. In CIM initialization, TensorCIM relies on the EOCI to
initialize CIM cores with WTs that are fetched from DRAM.
Meanwhile, the input buffer loads the GTs from the global
buffer. In CIM computation, the input buffer feeds the GTs to
ILA-CIM cores for computation. CIM outputs are written to
the global buffer with activation functions performed by the
SIMD core.
Fig. 6.
Optimized SpG workflow chart. In initialization, the access tensor
and SpG workload are repartitioned to minimize interchiplet access. During
SpG, off-chip DRAM or interchiplet access occurs and triggers the REGM
for redundancy-eliminated gathering when the required feature is not found
in CIM macros.
IV. REDUNDANCY-ELIMINATED GATHERING MANAGER
A. Sparse Gathering Workflow
Fig. 6 presents the SpG workflow process. SpG fetches
corresponding features in the feature tensor according to the
access tensor and reduces them together to generate the GT.
The access tensor records the irregular access pattern to the
feature tensor. Each row represents a gather-reduce operation,
and the “1” in this row indicates the required feature vector’s
position in this gather-reduce operation. In GCN, the access
tensor is the graph adjacency matrix with each row delineating
the connection of a vertex with all the other vertices in
the graph. In DLRM, the access tensor is the users’ past
interactions with each row indicating the preferred item indices
of this user.
As we have discussed in Challenge1, the strong gather and
reduction locality leads to repeated off-chip DRAM access,
interchiplet access, and redundant reduction operations in
SpG. Fig. 6 contains two of our SpG workflow optimization
approaches that tackle the challenge. In initialization, the
access tensor and SpG workload repartition minimize inter-
chiplet access by maximizing feature locality. During SpG,
off-chip DRAM or interchiplet access occurs and triggers
the REGM only when the required feature is not found
in CIM macros. The main function of REGM is managing
CIM to realize redundancy-eliminated gathering, which further
reduces off-chip DRAM accesses, interchiplet accesses, and
redundant reduction operations.
In initialization, we first reorder and repartition the access
tensor for the chiplets. Features are redistributed in each
chiplet’s DRAM with better locality, based on the chiplet’s
access pattern. Then, each chiplet stores its access tensor in
the input buffer and performs SpG mainly on the local DRAM
with minimal interchiplet access. Fig. 7(a) uses an example
to explain the benefits of access tensor and SpG workload
repartition. The different orange-colored blocks represent dif-
ferent chiplets’ feature accesses to their local DRAM. The
four chiplets’ local DRAM contain f0 and f1, f2 and f3, f4
and f5, f6 and f7, respectively. For Chiplet0, the access to
f0 and f1 belongs to the local DRAM access, and the access
to f3 belongs to the remote interchiplet accesses. The use of
2 × 2 orange-colored blocks around the diagonal is to
highlight the data locality after access tensor reordering.
Before reordering [see Fig. 7(a) (left)], most feature accesses
are outside the orange blocks. In other words, most feature
accesses require remote interchiplet access, which results in
high feature access latency. After reordering [see Fig. 7(a)
(right)], most feature accesses occur within the orange blocks,
which are confined to the local DRAM of each chiplet.
By comparing the elements outside orange blocks before and
Authorized licensed use limited to: University of Electronic Science and Tech of China. Downloaded on August 13,2026 at 03:59:19 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

===== PAGE 5 =====
738
IEEE JOURNAL OF SOLID-STATE CIRCUITS, VOL. 60, NO. 2, FEBRUARY 2025
Fig. 7.
Optimized SpG workflow example. (a) Access tensor and SpG work-
load repartition minimize interchiplet access by maximizing feature locality.
(b) Redundancy-eliminated gathering via CIM further reduces off-chip DRAM
accesses, interchiplet accesses, and redundant reduction operations.
Fig. 8.
Redundancy-eliminated gathering via CIM: a case study on Chiplet0.
after reordering, the effects of access tensor and SpG workload
repartition can be clearly demonstrated. Only f2 and f3 are
fetched through remote interchiplet accesses. Therefore, the
interchiplet accesses are greatly reduced.
During SpG, due to the large tensor size like GCN’s huge
graph, we store frequently accessed features and reduction
results in the CIM for reuse. As shown in Fig. 7(b), in this way,
most features do not need to be accessed from DRAM or other
chiplets, and future feature reductions can reuse previously
stored results (like f0 + f3 to f6 + f7) to eliminate redundant
reductions. Fig. 8 also provides more details about Chiplet0’s
behaviors to explain the process of redundancy-eliminated
gathering via CIM. REGM manages CIM to update storage
when new feature tensors are gathered onto the current chiplet.
According to the reduction reuse configuration generated from
REGM, Chiplet0 stores frequently-accessed features f0, f1, f3,
and high-reuse reduction result f0 + f3 in CIM macros.
Generally, to reorder a random access tensor that is
more complicated than the case in Fig. 7, we use a
locality-enhancing reordering method. Both GCN and DLRM
Fig. 9.
REGM architecture.
have the property that a cluster of gather-reduce operations
have similar feature access patterns. For instance, in GCN, the
graph usually exhibits a strong internal structure, like clusters
of webpages within the same domain in a web graph, or com-
munities of common friends in a social graph. Vertices within
the same community are usually accessed together by other
vertices in the community, exhibiting strong feature access
locality, with minimal intercommunity accesses. In DLRM,
one category of users with similar characteristics tends to
prefer similar types of items, with few interactions with
other item types, which also shows strong locality. Therefore,
our locality-enhancing reordering method assemblies a cluster
of gather–reduce operations nearby in the access tensor to
enhance the feature access locality. Then, we pack clusters to
form four groups with a similar total number of gather–reduce
operations and assign each group to one chiplet. In this way,
the SpG workload assigned to each chiplet is the group of
clusters, with a strong locality within each cluster. Thus, each
chiplet mainly relies on its local DRAM to perform SpG, with
minimal interchiplet access.
B. REGM Architecture
After discussing the SpG workflow, we introduce the
REGM architecture and explain how the proposed workflow
is implemented in hardware, as illustrated in Fig. 9. REGM
comprises frequently accessed feature filters, reduction redun-
dancy speculators, a reduction reuse generator, and an eviction
candidate first-in-first-out (FIFO). The determination of fre-
quently accessed features and reduction results is based on the
current status, necessitating REGM’s dynamic management for
gathering.
The gathered features’ access tensor (e.g., f0A and f3A) is
loaded into the REGM and sent to frequently accessed feature
filters. The future access times are counted and compared with
a frequency threshold. Features with high access times are
kept in the CIM. Rarely accessed features’ row addresses are
pushed into the eviction candidate FIFO. Since each feature’s
row address has only 8 bits, its storage overhead is negligible
compared to the 256 × 512 SRAM size in an ILA-CIM core,
Authorized licensed use limited to: University of Electronic Science and Tech of China. Downloaded on August 13,2026 at 03:59:19 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

===== PAGE 6 =====
WANG et al.: TensorCIM: DIGITAL COMPUTING-IN-MEMORY TENSOR PROCESSOR
739
Fig. 10.
Evaluation for the access tensor repartition and REGM, on GCN
model’s layer1 with the Pubmed dataset. Baseline: Conventional SpG
approach without access tensor repartition and REGM.
Fig. 11.
Equal operation-based CIM initialization workflow chart. EOCI first
finds the intersections between GT and WT’s nonzero ID sequences. For each
new intersected ID, a new workload assignment for the intersected WT row
and GT column is triggered.
consuming only 0.3% in the area and 0.2% in the power
of the chip. Besides, REGM implements reduction redun-
dancy speculators to determine whether to store a reduction
into CIM. The reduction’s future reuse times are counted
and compared with a redundancy threshold. In the example,
f0 + f3 is predicted to be high-reuse and will be stored in
CIM. After frequently accessed accesses and reduction results
are determined, REGM generates configurations for reduction
reuse and evicted features to CIM. If the CIM macros are full,
the head feature in the eviction candidate FIFO will be popped
out.
C. Technique Evaluation
Fig. 10 shows the evaluation for the access tensor and SpG
workload repartition and REGM architecture. The benchmark
is the aggregation phase on the GCN model’s layer1 with the
Pubmed dataset. The baseline (blue bar) is the conventional
SpG approach without repartition and REGM. SpG workload
is partitioned into four chiplets based on the access tensor’s
index order, and features in CIM are maintained without
REGM’s redundancy elimination. Compared with the baseline,
our SpG optimization (red bar) achieves 1.74× fewer DRAM
accesses, 3.55× fewer interchiplet accesses, and 1.35× fewer
reductions on the four-chiplet system owing to the better
exploitation of gather and reduction locality. Each chiplet
performs SpG mainly on the local DRAM, and frequently
accessed features and reduction results are maintained in the
CIM.
V. EQUAL OPERATION-BASED CIM INITIALIZER
A. Equal Operation-Based CIM Initialization
As mentioned in Challenge2a, different effective MAC
operations across CIM macros lead to inter-CIM workload
imbalance in SpA. Fig. 11 illustrates the equal operation-based
CIM initialization workflow that balances inter-CIM workload
for SpA. EOCI performs CIM initialization for WT and GT
assignment before SpA computation. First, EOCI finds the
intersections between GT and WT’s nonzero ID sequences,
since effective MAC operations only exist between intersected
columns and rows. Then, EOCI calculates the intersection’s
MAC operation count and reorders the GT and WT to balance
operations for all CIM subarrays.
Fig. 12 presents a simple example of equal operation-based
CIM initialization. The first step is effective operation recog-
nition. The GT’s nonzero column IDs are 0, 1, 2, 3, 4, and 7.
The WT’s nonzero row IDs are 0, 4, 5, 6, and 7. We find
the intersections between the two ID sequences (e.g., ID0, 4,
7 marked on the left). An intersection implies effective MACs
exist between the corresponding GT column and WT row, and
nonintersected IDs will not produce effective MACs.
The second step is balanced WT and GT assignments.
For each new intersected ID, a WT and GT assignment is
triggered. The operation count of the current intersected ID
is obtained based on the nonzero number in the GT column
and WT row. Rather than the index order, the WT row can
be assigned to an arbitrary subarray to achieve inter-CIM
workload balance at the subarray level. As shown on the right,
we fill up the CIM with the WT’s nonzero values in Row0,
10, 4, and 13 for Core0, and Row7, 15, 9, and 16 for Core1.
With corresponding GT columns assigned to the input buffer,
the MAC operation count is the same for all subarrays.
Fig. 13 presents the CIM-adaptive WT mapping process,
where the whole effective WT is divided into multiple small
WT tiles. Each WT tile is mapped onto CIM in turn during
CIM initialization, whose process has been elaborated in
Fig. 12. The size of the effective WT is larger than the
CIM capacity due to the large-scale beyond-NN applications,
so the whole effective WT requires multiple times to map
onto CIM. During each CIM initialization, we only select the
proper WT tile that suits the CIM size and store it in CIM.
Each row of the WT tile has the same number of nonzero
elements as the weight count in an SRAM row. After CIM
computation is completed for this WT tile, we continue the
mapping process by vertically traversing the whole effective
WT. Once the vertical traversal is completed, we check for
any remaining nonzero elements that have not been mapped.
If any exist, a new round of vertical traversal begins for these
elements. Using the CIM-adaptive WT mapping, although
the whole effective WT may have arbitrary sparse patterns,
we can always keep each SRAM row in subarray store
weights from the same WT row within the current WT tile.
Therefore, TensorCIM’s MAC utilization can remain high no
matter whether different rows of the whole effective WT
have different nonzero element numbers. Even though CIM’s
utilization decreases under extremely high sparsity, where the
nonzero elements may not be enough to fill an SRAM row,
ILA-CIM’s utilization still achieves 78.9%–96.7% when the
sparsity ratio ranges from 10% to 90%.
B. EOCI Architecture
Next, we go deeper into EOCI’s detailed architecture to
explain how it works to support the above two steps, as shown
Authorized licensed use limited to: University of Electronic Science and Tech of China. Downloaded on August 13,2026 at 03:59:19 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

===== PAGE 7 =====
740
IEEE JOURNAL OF SOLID-STATE CIRCUITS, VOL. 60, NO. 2, FEBRUARY 2025
Fig. 12.
Equal operation-based CIM initialization example: ➊effective OP recognition and ➋balanced WT/GT assignment.
Fig. 13.
CIM-adaptive WT mapping. The whole effective WT is divided into
multiple small WT tiles and mapped onto CIM during each CIM initialization.
Fig. 14.
EOCI architecture: ➊effective OP recognition and ➋balanced
WT/GT assignment.
in Fig. 14. First, the effective operation recognizer reads the
GT’s nonzero column IDs from the global buffer and the
WT’s nonzero row IDs from DRAM and stores them in
the two FIFOs. Then, it finds their intersections via parallel
comparators. In the recognizer work example at the bottom
left, at cycle 1, EOCI compares the top element in the WT
FIFO with all elements in the GT FIFO, and the fourth element
in the GT FIFO matches. Since 1, 2, and 3 in the GT FIFO will
not have intersections with other elements in the WT FIFO,
they can be directly popped to avoid unnecessary comparisons.
In the next cycle, the GT FIFO’s first element will be compared
Fig. 15.
Evaluation for the EOCI, on GCN model’s layer1 with the Pubmed
dataset. Baseline: Conventional CIM initialization approach without EOCI.
The inter-CIM imbalance ratio is the maximal subarray operation count
divided by the minimal subarray operation count.
with all elements in the WT FIFO. This alternating process
continues until all intersection IDs are found.
Then, for each new intersected ID, the EOCI triggers a new
workload assignment. The input buffer loads the GT column
from the global buffer. The on-demand weight fetcher loads
the WT row from DRAM. Since only intersected WT rows are
loaded on the chip, unnecessary off-chip accesses are avoided.
Finally, EOCI utilizes the balanced inter-CIM distributor to
manage GT and WT assignments. The distributor maintains
the current MAC count assigned to each subarray. After
calculating the intersected ID’s MAC count, the distributor first
finds the least-busy core and then assigns the new workload
to its least-operation subarray. The intersected WT row is
written to the destination CIM subarray, and the intersected
GT column is written to the corresponding position of the
input buffer.
C. Technique Evaluation
Fig. 15 shows the evaluation for the EOCI architecture. The
benchmark is the combination phase on the GCN model’s
layer1 with the Pubmed dataset. The hidden layer dimension
is 64. The baseline (blue bar) is the conventional CIM ini-
tialization approach without EOCI. WT and GT are assigned
in the index order, and the whole WT should be loaded on
the chip. We define the inter-CIM imbalance ratio as the
maximal subarray operation count divided by the minimal
subarray operation count, to evaluate the imbalance degree
of the distributed workloads across different CIMs. Besides,
since nonintersected WT rows will not be involved in effective
MAC operations, loading them on a chip incurs unnecessary
off-chip accesses in the baseline. We also evaluate the off-chip
WT access reduction from our on-demand weight fetcher
that only loads intersected WT rows. Our EOCI’s balanced
Authorized licensed use limited to: University of Electronic Science and Tech of China. Downloaded on August 13,2026 at 03:59:19 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

===== PAGE 8 =====
WANG et al.: TensorCIM: DIGITAL COMPUTING-IN-MEMORY TENSOR PROCESSOR
741
Fig. 16.
ILA-CIM computation example.
inter-CIM distributor reduces the imbalance ratio from 5.51 to
1.24, and the on-demand weight fetcher avoids unnecessary
WT accesses by 1.28×. This demonstrates that the EOCI can
effectively balance the MAC operation count for all subarrays.
VI. INPUT-LOOKAHEAD CIM CORE
A. Input-Lookahead CIM Computation
Although EOCI can mitigate Challenge2a, there are still
idle CIM subarrays during computation that lead to intra-
CIM under-utilization in SpA, as discussed in Challenge2b.
For instance, conventionally, CIM Core1 in Fig. 12 can only
process one input row at a time, so only part of the array
can be activated. ILA-CIM looks ahead at future inputs to
fully utilize intra-CIM MAC logic, which reduces idle CIM
subarrays and lowers computation latency.
We begin with a simple example of ILA-CIM computation,
as shown in Fig. 16. Instead of processing one input row
at a time, ILA-CIM provides the opportunity to process
multiple input rows simultaneously and keep all subarrays
busy. In step 0, we look ahead for the input Row1’s G1, 16 to
activate both Subarray0 and Subarray1. Based on the input’s
Col.ID (15 and 16), one row of each subarray is read out and
multiplied by the nonzero input. Then, the output Row0 and
Row1 are written to the global buffer.
Similarly, step 1 reads G1, 7 and looks ahead for G2, 9 to
activate all subarrays, and the output Row1 and Row2 are
written to the global buffer. Since the output O1,3’s partial
sum has been stored in the global buffer previously, it is loaded
back for sparse accumulation.
Finally, step 2 reads G3,15 and G3,16 and finishes the
computation with only three steps. Then, the output Row3 is
written to the global buffer. In comparison, the conventional
method requires four steps for the same computation.
B. ILA-CIM Architecture
As shown in Fig. 17, CIM computation has three steps: input
lookahead, CIM multiplication, and output merging. These
Fig. 17.
ILA-CIM computation workflow chart. The three steps of input
lookahead, CIM multiplication, and output merging form a pipeline in the
workflow.
Fig. 18.
ILA-CIM architecture: ➊input lookahead, ➋CIM multiplication,
and ➌output merging.
three steps form a pipeline in the workflow, which serves as the
basis of input lookahead realization. The preparation of each
subarray’s inputs is the first pipeline stage, whose latency is
hidden during subsequent CIM computation once the pipeline
is filled. Without pipeline operation, the input preparation may
take a substantial amount of time before CIM computation,
offsetting the benefits from the fully utilized CIM logic.
Fig. 18 demonstrates the ILA-CIM’s detailed architecture.
In the first step, the input lookahead unit reads two nonzero
inputs per cycle and pushes their values and IDs to the
subarray FIFOs. The input lookahead unit and Booth controller
are shared by the four ILA-CIM macros in each CIM core.
The macro includes 16 subarrays and processes 16 required
inputs together when all FIFOs are ready. Thus, the macro can
look ahead for future inputs and activate all subarrays’ CIM
logic simultaneously.
When all FIFOs are ready, the workflow goes to the sec-
ond step: CIM multiplication. Each subarray has 16 × 128
6T-SRAM cells and four Booth FP32 subarray multipli-
ers. We use a full-digital CIM architecture with 16 rows
time-sharing the subarray multipliers to balance computing
accuracy and memory density [5]. The FP weights’ exponent,
sign, and mantissa are stored in CIM. In floating point mul-
tiplication, one row of the subarray is read out based on the
input GT’s Col.ID, and multiplied by the FP input mantissa’s
bitwise Booth signals with a ∼50% cycle reduction [16]. After
shift-accumulation for input bits, the final mantissa products
Authorized licensed use limited to: University of Electronic Science and Tech of China. Downloaded on August 13,2026 at 03:59:19 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

===== PAGE 9 =====
742
IEEE JOURNAL OF SOLID-STATE CIRCUITS, VOL. 60, NO. 2, FEBRUARY 2025
Fig. 19.
Evaluation for the EOCI and ILA-CIM architecture, on GCN
model’s layer1 with the Pubmed dataset. Baseline: Conventional CIM
initialization approach without EOCI and computation approach without
ILA-CIM. “+ILA-CIM”: Optimize the baseline with ILA-CIM in compu-
tation. “+EOCI” (Ours): Optimize the baseline with ILA-CIM and EOCI.
are generated. According to the sum of the input exponent and
weight exponent, the FP products are normalized to the FP32
format, facilitating the following floating point additions.
Finally, we go to the third step: output merging. The output
merger collects all the results from subarrays and converts the
output indexes to global buffer addresses. The previous partial
sums are loaded back from the global buffer and added up
with the current CIM outputs. Then the accumulated outputs
are written back to the global buffer.
Besides, the ILA-CIM is also applicable to SpG’s reduction
operations. Since the feature tensor is also sparse, we can reuse
the same datapath in the ILA-CIM to support the reduction of
sparse feature tensors, eliminating the need for loading zeros
in feature tensors onto the chip.
C. Technique Evaluation
Fig. 19 shows the evaluation for the two features in SpA
optimization. The benchmark is the combination phase on the
GCN model’s layer1 with the Pubmed dataset. The hidden
layer dimension is 64. The baseline (gray bar) is the con-
ventional CIM initialization approach without EOCI and the
computation approach without ILA-CIM. WT and GT are
assigned in the index order, and each CIM core can only
process one input row at a time. The ILA-CIM architecture
improves intra-CIM utilization from 17.6% to 33.2% and
brings 1.88× speedup. EOCI further improves intra-CIM uti-
lization to 95.4% with a 5.28× total speedup. EOCI balances
the MAC operation count for all subarrays from the workload
distribution side. ILA-CIM keeps all CIM subarrays busy
from the workload execution side. Therefore, the computation
time of different subarrays is nearly the same, achieving high
intra-CIM utilization and minimizing computation resource
idleness. EOCI only incurs 1.96% area overhead, and the
additional logic added to CIM for ILA support only incurs
2.64% area overhead.
VII. EXPERIMENTAL RESULTS
This section first describes TensorCIM’s measurement
results from a 28-nm fabricated chip and four-chiplet MCM-
CIM system. We then provide the test platform setup for
Fig. 20.
TensorCIM’s MCM package, single-chip package, chip micrograph,
VF scaling curves, and specifications.
Fig. 21.
TensorCIM’s area and power breakdown.
evaluation. We conduct comprehensive studies on the Tensor-
CIM processor with typical beyond-NN applications (GCN
and DLRM), including overall evaluation, layerwise analysis,
and technique breakdown analysis. Finally, we compare Ten-
sorCIM with state-of-the-art works.
A. Chip Micrograph and Summary
Fig. 20 presents the TensorCIM’s MCM package, single-
chip package, chip micrograph, voltage–frequency scaling
curves, and specifications. TensorCIM is fabricated in 28-nm
CMOS technology, with a 3.88 × 3.20 mm2 die area. The
chip can work at 0.6–1.0-V supply, 115–290 MHz with
power consumption of 29.10–166.84 mW. The MCM pack-
age integrates four TensorCIM processors with 320-Mb/s
interchiplet bandwidth, which is built to verify the effective-
ness of the proposed techniques in solving the MCM-CIM
system’s challenges. TensorCIM can support INT8, INT16,
and FP32 precision. INT support is realized by bypassing
exponent-related processing in the ILA-CIM, which enhances
TensorCIM’s applicability to other NN-only applications.
To support the INT8 operation, three INT8 weights are con-
catenated and stored in the mantissa part of the original FP32
weight, while the exponent part is gated. To support INT16
operation, one INT16 weight is stored in the mantissa part,
while the other storage is gated. The mantissa alignment logic
in output merger’s adders is also bypassed.
Authorized licensed use limited to: University of Electronic Science and Tech of China. Downloaded on August 13,2026 at 03:59:19 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

===== PAGE 10 =====
WANG et al.: TensorCIM: DIGITAL COMPUTING-IN-MEMORY TENSOR PROCESSOR
743
Fig. 22.
Test platforms for the MCM-CIM system with four TensorCIM
chiplets and the single TensorCIM chip.
For
the
single
chip,
the
peak
performance
reaches
0.89 TOPS at INT8, 0.15 TOPS at INT16, and 0.09 TFLOPS
at FP32 under 1.0 V, 290 MHz. For the four-chiplet MCM-
CIM system, the peak performance reaches 3.56 TOPS at
INT8, 0.59 TOPS at INT16, and 0.37 TFLOPS at FP32
under 1.0 V, 290 MHz. The highest algebra energy effi-
ciency is 85.0 TOPS/W at IN8, 14.2 TOPS/W at INT16,
and 8.3 TFLOPS/W at FP32 under 0.65 V, 175 MHz, which
is measured on the sparse GCN model with the Pubmed
dataset. The gathering efficiency under this operation point
is 3.7 nJ/Gather at FP32. The peak performance, calculated
by dividing the actual completed operations by latency, is the
dense throughput that is consistent across various executed
models. The peak energy efficiency, calculated by dividing
the equivalent operations of nonsparse models by the energy
of actually executed sparse models [27], is the sparse efficiency
related to the executed model. In other words, zeros in WTs
and GTs are skipped during actual execution, but these useless
operations are counted in the operation number when calcu-
lating energy efficiency. This calculation method is consistent
with previous works’ settings [25], [26], [27], [28].
Although the main focus of TensorCIM is beyond-NN
acceleration that requires FP32 precision, TensorCIM’s INT
efficiency is also remarkable thanks to the efficient support
for sparse tensor multiplication. With less latency required
for completing an MAC operation, INT8 and INT16 can
deliver higher performance and energy efficiency than that
of FP32. For instance, comparing INT16 and FP32, the
weight counts contained in CIM are equivalent to them since
the FP32 weight’s mantissa part can only store one INT16
weight. In the shift-accumulation process for input bits, FP32
mantissa requires 25-b input [21] and INT16 only requires
16-b input. Therefore, INT16 requires less latency to complete
an operation, and INT16’s metrics are better than FP32’s.
TensorCIM’s area and power breakdown are depicted in
Fig. 21. REGM is attached to each ILA-CIM core for dynamic
gathering management, consuming only 3.6% in area and 5.7%
in power. EOCI manages ILA-CIM cores’ initialization, which
consumes only 2.0% in area and 3.0% in power.
B. Test Platform Setup
Fig. 22 illustrates the test platform for the MCM-CIM
system with four TensorCIM chiplets and a single TensorCIM
chip. Besides the test MCM-CIM system or single chip, the
TABLE I
OVERALL EVALUATION ON TYPICAL BEYOND-NN APPLICATIONS∗1
TABLE II
LAYERWISE ANALYSIS FOR GCN ON THE PUBMED DATASET
test platform comprises Xilinx VC709 FPGA board, dc power,
logic analyzer, oscilloscope, and host computer. The test
dataset, beyond-NN application model, and intermediate data
produced during computation are stored in the FPGA board’s
DDR3 memory. The FPGA sends control signals and data to
TensorCIM via the FPGA mezzanine connector (FMC). The
dc power supplies 0.6–1.0-V core voltage for the test chip.
The oscilloscope and logic analyzer observe the chip’s state
signals and logic signals. TensorCIM’s computing results are
collected by the FPGA and then sent to the host computer for
further analysis.
C. Evaluation on Beyond-NN Applications
1) Overall Evaluation: Table I presents the overall evalua-
tion of typical beyond-NN applications, GCN with the Pubmed
dataset, and DLRM with the MovieLens dataset. Since they
require high-precision computation, we use FP32 to maintain
accuracy. All the results are obtained at 0.65 V, 175 MHz
for the highest-efficiency measurement. Off-chip memory is
excluded to focus on the MCM evaluation. The baseline is
the same MCM-CIM system with four CIM chiplets, each of
which is implemented on TensorCIM without the proposed
techniques. To measure the energy consumption of SpG,
we use a metric “gathering efficiency,” which equals the aver-
age energy consumption of gathering and reducing tensors to
generate one reduction result. Algebra efficiency is the energy
efficiency of sparse tensor multiplication in SpA. On GCN,
our work achieves 3.7-nJ/Gather gathering efficiency and
7.6-TFLOPS/W algebra efficiency, saving 4.58× energy
over
the
baseline
for
the
entire
model.
On
DLRM,
our work achieves 2.3-nJ/Gather gathering efficiency and
6.4-TFLOPS/W algebra efficiency, saving 3.52× energy for
the entire model.
Authorized licensed use limited to: University of Electronic Science and Tech of China. Downloaded on August 13,2026 at 03:59:19 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

===== PAGE 11 =====
744
IEEE JOURNAL OF SOLID-STATE CIRCUITS, VOL. 60, NO. 2, FEBRUARY 2025
Fig. 23.
Technique breakdown analysis on GCN with the Pubmed dataset
and DLRM with the MovieLens dataset. “Baseline”: The same MCM but
without the proposed techniques. “SpG Opt.”: Baseline + SpG Optimization
(Feature1). “Ours”: Baseline + SpG, SpA Optimization (Feature1, 2, 3). The
baseline results are based on postsynthesis simulation, evaluated at 28 nm,
0.65 V, 175 MHz.
2) Layerwise Analysis: Tables II and III provide layerwise
analysis on GCN and DLRM at 0.65 V, 175 MHz. For GCN,
the model has two layers, with hidden layer dimension =
64. Since each layer comprises an aggregation phase and
a combination phase, we separate the latency and energy
for each of them. The aggregation phase (SpG) takes up
51.2% in latency and 46.3% in energy. The combination phase
(SpA) takes up 48.8% in latency and 53.7% in energy. SpG
and SpA have comparable latency and energy consumption
proportions, necessitating the optimization for each of them.
In the combination phase, as Layer2’s output dimension is
the label count (=3), which is much smaller than Layer1’s
output dimension (hidden layer dimension = 64), the Layer2
combination phase only consumes little latency and energy.
For DLRM, the fully connected layers comprise a bottom-FC
layer and a top-FC layer, which process dense inputs and
compute the final prediction score for the recommendation
task, respectively. Therefore, we report evaluation results for
each of them. The embedding layer (SpG) consumes 59.1% in
latency and 54.4% in energy. The fully connected layer (SpA)
consumes 40.9% in latency and 45.6% in energy. SpG and
SpA in DLRM also have comparable overheads.
3) Technique Breakdown Analysis: Fig. 23 demonstrates
a technique breakdown analysis on GCN with the Pubmed
dataset and DLRM with the MovieLens dataset, to clearly
illustrate how the energy consumption is saved with Tensor-
CIM’s three features. The baseline is the same MCM-CIM
system but without the proposed techniques. Thus, the four
chiplets in the baseline have repeated feature accesses, redun-
dant reduction operations, and low algebra efficiency. We then
enhance the baseline with SpG optimization (Feature1). The
eliminated redundant accesses and reductions lower the feature
access latency. Therefore, the SpG energy reduces by 3.55×
for GCN and 3.41× for DLRM, contributing to 1.28× and
1.46× energy saving for GCN and DLRM’s entire model. Our
TensorCIM further enhances the baseline with SpA optimiza-
tion (Feature2 and 3). The optimized workload distribution
(Feature2) and workload execution (Feature3) balance the
MAC operation count and keep all subarrays busy, largely
Fig. 24.
Latency and energy scaling with increasing interchiplet bandwidth
from 320 Mb/s to 2 Gb/s, on GCN model with the Pubmed dataset.
Fig. 25. TensorCIM’s speedup and energy saving over the baseline on typical
NNs.
TABLE III
LAYERWISE ANALYSIS FOR DLRM ON THE MOVIELENS DATASET
improving the CIM utilization of sparse tensor multiplication
and algebra efficiency. In this way, the SpA energy reduces by
5.95× for GCN and 4.28× for DLRM, and the entire saving
reaches 4.58× for GCN and 3.52× for DLRM.
4) Latency and Energy Scaling Analysis: Fig. 24 presents
the analysis of how latency and energy scale with changes
in the interchiplet bandwidth. The implemented four-chiplet
MCM-CIM system works at 0.65 V, 175 MHz with 320-Mb/s
interchiplet bandwidth. We build a simulation system that
scales the interchiplet bandwidth from 320 Mb/s to 2 Gb/s.
Each chiplet has the same settings as the measurement results
on the implemented MCM-CIM system, operating at the
highest efficiency point (0.65 V, 175 MHz). The benchmark is
the GCN model with the Pubmed dataset. With the interchiplet
bandwidth increasing from 320 Mb/s to 2 Gb/s, the latency
decreases from 2.109 to 1.426 s, and the system energy
consumption decreases from 0.312 to 0.221 mJ. The curves
indicate limited latency and energy scaling with increasing
interchiplet bandwidth. This is mainly because the proposed
MCM access optimization technique (Repartition + REGM)
reduces requirements for interchiplet bandwidth, so increasing
beyond 1 Gb/s gets saturated latency and energy.
Authorized licensed use limited to: University of Electronic Science and Tech of China. Downloaded on August 13,2026 at 03:59:19 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

===== PAGE 12 =====
WANG et al.: TensorCIM: DIGITAL COMPUTING-IN-MEMORY TENSOR PROCESSOR
745
TABLE IV
COMPARISON WITH STATE-OF-THE-ART CIM PROCESSORS
D. Evaluation on NN-Only Applications
Although TensorCIM mainly targets beyond-NN applica-
tions, its efficient support for sparse tensor multiplication
from the EOCI (Feature2) and ILA-CIM (Feature3) is also
applicable to NN-only applications. Fig. 25 shows Tensor-
CIM’s speedup and normalized energy over the baseline on
typical NNs, including AlexNet, VGG-19, ResNet-50, ResNet-
152, and DenseNet-169. The baseline is the same MCM-CIM
system but without the proposed EOCI and ILA-CIM tech-
niques for SpA optimization. Although the baseline only stores
nonzero weight elements in CIM and feeds nonzero input
elements to CIM for computation, the inter-CIM workload
imbalance and intra-CIM under-utilization lead to significant
computation resource idleness. Such inefficiencies severely
limit the available speedup from leveraging sparsity, indicating
that the irregular sparsity is quite difficult to exploit on CIM,
which has a rigid crossbar structure. In contrast, with the
joint optimization of workload distribution (Feature2) and
workload execution (Feature3), TensorCIM realizes efficient
sparse tensor multiplication with high CIM utilization. As a
result, TensorCIM delivers 2.61× average speedup and 2.43×
energy saving on five benchmarks.
E. Comparison With State-of-the-Art Works
Table IV shows a detailed comparison with state-of-the-
art CIM processors. ISSCC’22-11.6 [5] is a digital CIM
processor designed by TSMC, with only INT support.
ISSCC’22-15.3 [28] is a state-of-the-art MCM-CIM based
on analog CIM, with INT4/3 support. ISSCC’22-15.5 [16]
is a digital CIM processor with both FP and INT support.
TensorCIM is designed on the promising digital CIM-based
architecture to support high-precision (up to FP32), featuring
optimized SpG/SpA support for beyond-NN applications with
redundancy-eliminated MCM access. TensorCIM’s peak alge-
bra energy efficiency reaches 85.0 TOPS/W at INT8 (2.17×
over [5]) and 8.3 TFLOPS/W at FP32 (2.24× over [16])
at 0.65 V, 175 MHz, mainly due to the better sparsity
exploitation. Since [5] and [16] can only support dense tensor
multiplication, a substantial amount of zeros in WTs and GTs
incur useless operations. TensorCIM effectively skips zeros
and supports sparse tensor multiplication in CIM with high
intra-CIM utilization. Besides the better sparsity exploitation
in SpA, TensorCIM’s advantages over [16] also come from
the optimized SpG support. The support for sparse feature
reduction in ILA-CIM avoids the overhead in loading zeros
in feature tensors (discussed in Section VI-B). The elimi-
nated redundant accesses and reductions further lower the
feature access latency. Owing to the optimized SpG support,
TensorCIM consumes only 3.7-nJ/Gather gathering efficiency,
which is 9.49× lower than a simulated MCM-CIM system
based on the digital CIM that supports FP32 [16]. With the
joint SpG/SpA optimization, the total energy consumption
for GCN on Pubmed is 0.31 mJ, which is 5.64× lower
than [16]. Reference [28] is a state-of-the-art MCM-CIM based
on analog CIM. Its INT4/3 precision is not suitable for beyond-
NN applications. Moreover, its direct MCM access may cause
high communication during SpG.
VIII. CONCLUSION
This work proposes TensorCIM as the CIM processor, with
optimized SpG/SpA support. The SpG optimization eliminates
redundant feature accesses and reductions. The SpA opti-
mization balances the MAC operation count and keeps all
Authorized licensed use limited to: University of Electronic Science and Tech of China. Downloaded on August 13,2026 at 03:59:19 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

===== PAGE 13 =====
746
IEEE JOURNAL OF SOLID-STATE CIRCUITS, VOL. 60, NO. 2, FEBRUARY 2025
subarrays busy. While most previous research only focuses
on CIM-based NN processor design, TensorCIM explores a
new direction of acceleration for beyond-NN applications,
which are widely used in more general AI scenarios when
processing real-world data. Besides, the efficient support for
sparse tensor multiplication largely enhances digital CIM’s
capability, paving the way for digital CIM’s deployment in
more general sparse tensor operations like scientific computing
and graph processing. Furthermore, as AI models are get-
ting larger and more complex, scaling out CIM processors
becomes increasingly crucial [23]. The fusion of CIM and
MCM presents a promising scalable approach for CIM scaling,
essential for more future large-scale NN and beyond-NN
applications.
REFERENCES
[1] A. Agrawal et al., “A 7 nm 4-core ai chip with 25.6 TFLOPS hybrid FP8
training, 102.4 TOPS INT4 inference and workload-aware throttling,” in
IEEE Int. Solid-State Circuits Conf. (ISSCC) Dig. Tech. Papers, vol. 64,
Feb. 2021, pp. 144–146.
[2] C. Chen, K. Li, Y. Li, and X. Zou, “ReGNN: A redundancy-eliminated
graph neural networks accelerator,” in Proc. IEEE Int. Symp. High-
Perform. Comput. Architecture (HPCA), Apr. 2022, pp. 429–443.
[3] Y.-H. Chen, T. Krishna, J. S. Emer, and V. Sze, “Eyeriss: An
energy-efficient reconfigurable accelerator for deep convolutional neural
networks,” IEEE J. Solid-State Circuits, vol. 52, no. 1, pp. 127–138,
Jan. 2017.
[4] Y.-D. Chih et al., “An 89TOPS/W and 16.3TOPS/mm2 all-digital
SRAM-based full-precision compute-in memory macro in 22 nm for
machine-learning edge applications,” in IEEE Int. Solid-State Circuits
Conf. (ISSCC) Dig. Tech. Papers, Feb. 2021, pp. 252–254.
[5] H. Fujiwara et al., “A 5-nm 254-TOPS/W 221-TOPS/mm2 fully-digital
computing-in-memory macro supporting wide-range dynamic-voltage-
frequency scaling and simultaneous MAC and write operations,” in
IEEE Int. Solid-State Circuits Conf. (ISSCC) Dig. Tech. Papers, vol. 65,
Feb. 2022, pp. 1–3.
[6] T. Geng et al., “I-GCN: A graph convolutional network accelerator with
runtime locality enhancement through islandization,” in Proc. 54th Annu.
IEEE/ACM Int. Symp. Microarchitecture, Oct. 2021, pp. 1051–1063.
[7] H. Kal, S. Lee, G. Ko, and W. W. Ro, “SPACE: Locality-aware pro-
cessing in heterogeneous memory for personalized recommendations,”
in Proc. ACM/IEEE 48th Annu. Int. Symp. Comput. Archit. (ISCA),
Jun. 2021, pp. 679–691.
[8] T. N. Kipf and M. Welling, “Semi-supervised classification with graph
convolutional networks,” in Proc. Int. Conf. Learn. Represent., 2017,
pp. 1–14.
[9] Y. Kwon, Y. Lee, and M. Rhu, “TensorDIMM: A practical near-memory
processing architecture for embeddings and tensor operations in deep
learning,” in Proc. 52nd Annu. IEEE/ACM Int. Symp. Microarchitecture,
Columbus, OH, USA, Oct. 2019, pp. 740–753.
[10] Y. LeCun, Y. Bengio, and G. Hinton, “Deep learning,” Nature, vol. 521,
no. 7553, pp. 436–444, 7553.
[11] J. Lee, C. Kim, S. Kang, D. Shin, S. Kim, and H.-J. Yoo, “UNPU:
A 50.6TOPS/W unified deep neural network accelerator with 1b-to-
16b fully-variable weight bit-precision,” in IEEE Int. Solid-State Circuits
Conf. (ISSCC) Dig. Tech. Papers, Feb. 2018, pp. 218–220.
[12] Y. Lee et al., “MERCI: Efficient embedding reduction on commod-
ity hardware via sub-query memoization,” in Proc. 26th ACM Int.
Conf. Architectural Support Program. Lang. Operating Syst. New
York, NY, USA: Association for Computing Machinery, Apr. 2021,
pp. 302–313.
[13] H. Mori et al., “A 4 nm 6163-TOPS/W/b 4790-TOPS/mm2/b SRAM
based digital-computing-in-memory macro supporting bit-width flex-
ibility and simultaneous MAC and weight update,” in IEEE Int.
Solid-State Circuits Conf. (ISSCC) Dig. Tech. Papers, Feb. 2023,
pp. 132–134.
[14] M. Naumov et al., “Deep learning recommendation model for person-
alization and recommendation systems,” 2019, arXiv:1906.00091.
[15] Y. S. Shao et al., “Simba: Scaling deep-learning inference with multi-
chip-module-based architecture,” in Proc. 52nd Annu. IEEE/ACM Int.
Symp. Microarchitecture, Oct. 2019, pp. 14–27.
[16] F. Tu et al., “A 28 nm 29.2 TFLOPS/W BF16 and 36.5 TOPS/W
INT8 reconfigurable digital CIM processor with unified FP/INT pipeline
and bitwise in-memory booth multiplication for cloud deep learning
acceleration,” in IEEE Int. Solid-State Circuits Conf. (ISSCC) Dig. Tech.
Papers, vol. 65, Feb. 2022, pp. 1–3.
[17] F. Tu et al., “TensorCIM: A 28 nm 3.7nJ/gather and 8.3TFLOPS/W
FP32 digital-CIM tensor processor for MCM-CIM-based beyond-NN
acceleration,” in IEEE Int. Solid-State Circuits Conf. (ISSCC) Dig. Tech.
Papers, Feb. 2023, pp. 254–256.
[18] F. Tu et al., “Evolver: A deep learning processor with on-device
quantization-voltage-frequency tuning,” IEEE J. Solid-State Circuits,
vol. 56, no. 2, pp. 658–673, Feb. 2021.
[19] F. Tu et al., “A 28 nm 15.59 µJ/token full-digital bitline-transpose
CIM-based sparse transformer accelerator with pipeline/parallel recon-
figurable modes,” in IEEE Int. Solid-State Circuits Conf. (ISSCC) Dig.
Tech. Papers, vol. 65, Feb. 2022, pp. 466–468.
[20] F. Tu et al., “MuITCIM: A 28nm 2.24 µJ/token attention-token-bit
hybrid sparse digital CIM-based accelerator for multimodal transform-
ers,” in IEEE Int. Solid-State Circuits Conf. (ISSCC) Dig. Tech. Papers,
Feb. 2023, pp. 248–250.
[21] F. Tu et al., “ReDCIM: Reconfigurable digital computing-in-memory
processor with unified FP/INT pipeline for cloud AI acceleration,” IEEE
J. Solid-State Circuits, vol. 58, no. 1, pp. 243–255, Jan. 2023.
[22] M. Yan et al., “HyGCN: A GCN accelerator with hybrid architecture,”
in Proc. IEEE Int. Symp. High Perform. Comput. Architecture (HPCA),
Feb. 2020, pp. 15–29.
[23] B. Yang, J. Chen, and F. Tu, “Towards efficient generative AI and
beyond-AI computing: New trends on ISSCC 2024 machine learning
accelerators,” J. Semicond., vol. 45, no. 4, Apr. 2024, Art. no. 040204.
[24] S. Yin et al., “A high energy efficient reconfigurable hybrid neural
network processor for deep learning applications,” IEEE J. Solid-State
Circuits, vol. 53, no. 4, pp. 968–982, Apr. 2018.
[25] J. Yue et al., “A 2.75-to-75.9 TOPS/W computing-in-memory NN
processor supporting set-associate block-wise zero skipping and ping-
pong CIM with simultaneous computation and weight updating,” in
IEEE Int. Solid-State Circuits Conf. (ISSCC) Dig. Tech. Papers, San
Francisco, CA, USA, Feb. 2021, pp. 238–240.
[26] J. Yue et al., “A 28 nm 16.9–300TOPS/W computing-in-memory
processor supporting floating-point NN inference/training with intensive-
CIM sparse-digital architecture,” in IEEE Int. Solid-State Circuits Conf.
(ISSCC) Dig. Tech. Papers, San Francisco, CA, USA, 2023, pp. 1–3.
[27] J. Yue et al., “A 65 nm computing-in-memory-based CNN processor with
2.9-to-35.8TOPS/W system energy efficiency using dynamic-sparsity
performance-scaling architecture and energy-efficient inter/intra-macro
data reuse,” in IEEE Int. Solid-State Circuits Conf. (ISSCC) Dig. Tech.
Papers, Feb. 2020, pp. 234–236.
[28] H. Zhu et al., “COMB-MCM: Computing-on-memory-boundary NN
processor with bipolar bitwise sparsity optimization for scalable multi-
chiplet-module edge machine learning,” in IEEE Int. Solid-State Circuits
Conf. (ISSCC) Dig. Tech. Papers, vol. 65, Feb. 2022, pp. 1–3.
[29] B. Zimmer et al., “A 0.32–128 TOPS, scalable multi-chip-module-
based deep neural network inference accelerator with ground-referenced
signaling in 16 nm,” IEEE J. Solid-State Circuits, vol. 55, no. 4,
pp. 920–932, Apr. 2020.
Yiqi
Wang
(Graduate Student Member, IEEE)
received the B.S. degree from the School of Inte-
grated Circuits, Tsinghua University, Beijing, China,
in 2021, where he is currently pursuing the Ph.D.
degree.
His research interests include deep learning, in-
memory computing, and computer architecture.
Authorized licensed use limited to: University of Electronic Science and Tech of China. Downloaded on August 13,2026 at 03:59:19 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

===== PAGE 14 =====
WANG et al.: TensorCIM: DIGITAL COMPUTING-IN-MEMORY TENSOR PROCESSOR
747
Zihan Wu received the B.S. degree from the
School of Microelectronics, Shandong University,
Jinan, China, in 2020. He is currently pursuing the
M.S. degree with the School of Integrated Circuits,
Tsinghua University, Beijing, China.
His research interests include in-memory comput-
ing, computer architecture, and deep learning.
Weiwei Wu received the B.S. degree in electronic
science and technology from Beijing University
of Technology, Beijing, China, in 2016, and the
M.S. degree from the Institute of Microelectronics,
Tsinghua University, Beijing, in 2019, where she is
currently pursuing the Ph.D. degree with the School
of Integrated Circuits.
Her current research interests include deep learn-
ing, computer architecture, and VLSI design.
Leibo Liu (Senior Member, IEEE) received the B.S.
degree in electronic engineering from Tsinghua Uni-
versity, Beijing, China, in 1999, and the Ph.D. degree
from the School of Integrated Circuits, Tsinghua
University, in 2004.
He is currently a Professor with the Institute of
Microelectronics, Tsinghua University. His research
interests include reconfigurable computing, mobile
computing, and VLSI DSP.
Yang Hu (Member, IEEE) received the B.S. degree
from Tianjin University, Tianjin, China, in 2007,
the M.S. degree from Tsinghua University, Beijing,
China, in 2011, and the Ph.D. degree from the Uni-
versity of Florida, Gainesville, FL, USA, in 2017.
He was an Assistant Professor with the ECE
Department, The University of Texas at Dallas,
Richardson, TX, USA, from 2017 to 2021. He is
currently an Associate Professor with the School of
Integrated Circuits, Tsinghua University.
Shaojun Wei (Fellow, IEEE) was born in Beijing,
China, in 1958. He received the Ph.D. degree from
the Faculte Polytechnique de Mons, Mons, Belgium,
in 1991.
He is currently a Professor with the School of
Integrated Circuits, Tsinghua University, Beijing.
His main research interests include VLSI SoC
design, EDA methodology, and
communication
ASIC design.
Dr. Wei is a Senior Member of the Chinese Insti-
tute of Electronics (CIE).
Fengbin Tu (Member, IEEE) received the B.S.
degree from the School of Electronic Engineering,
Beijing University of Posts and Telecommunica-
tions, Beijing, China, in 2013, and the Ph.D. degree
from the Institute of Microelectronics, Tsinghua
University, Beijing, in 2019.
He was a Post-Doctoral Scholar at the Scalable
Energy-efficient Architecture Laboratory (SEAL),
Department of Electrical and Computer Engineer-
ing, University of California at Santa Barbara,
Santa Barbara, CA, USA, from 2019 to 2022, and
a Post-Doctoral Fellow at the AI Chip Center for Emerging Smart Systems
(ACCESS), Hong Kong, China, from 2022 to 2023. He is currently an Assis-
tant Professor with the Department of Electronic and Computer Engineering,
The Hong Kong University of Science and Technology, Hong Kong. He has
authored two books titled Architecture Design and Memory Optimization
for Neural Network Accelerators and Artificial Intelligence Chip Design.
His research works appeared at top conferences and journals on integrated
circuits and computer architecture, including International Solid-State Circuits
Conference (ISSCC), IEEE JOURNAL OF SOLID-STATE CIRCUITS (JSSC),
Design Automation Conference (DAC), International Symposium on Com-
puter Architecture (ISCA), and International Symposium on Microarchitecture
(MICRO). His research interests include AI chips, computer architecture,
reconfigurable computing, and computing in memory.
Dr. Tu designed the AI Chip Thinker and received the 2017 ISLPED Design
Contest Award. His Ph.D. thesis was recognized by the Tsinghua Excellent
Dissertation Award.
Shouyi Yin (Senior Member, IEEE) received the
B.S., M.S., and Ph.D. degrees in electronic engi-
neering from Tsinghua University, Beijing, China,
in 2000, 2002, and 2005, respectively.
He was with Imperial College London, London,
U.K., as a Research Associate. He is currently a
Full Professor and the Vice Director of the School
of Integrated Circuits, Tsinghua University. He has
authored more than 100 journal articles and more
than 50 conference papers. His research interests
include reconfigurable computing, AI processors,
and high-level synthesis.
Dr. Yin has served as a Technical Program Committee Member for the top
VLSI and EDA conferences, such as Asian Solid-State Circuits Conference
(A-SSCC), International Symposium on Microarchitecture (MICRO), Design
Automation Conference (DAC), International Conference on Computer-Aided
Design (ICCAD), and Asia and South Pacific Design Automation Conference
(ASP-DAC). He is an Associate Editor of IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON CIR-
CUITS AND SYSTEMS I: REGULAR PAPERS (TCAS-I), ACM Transactions on
Reconfigurable Technology and Systems (TRETS), and Integration, the VLSI
Journal.
Authorized licensed use limited to: University of Electronic Science and Tech of China. Downloaded on August 13,2026 at 03:59:19 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
