===== PAGE 1 =====
3390
IEEE JOURNAL OF SOLID-STATE CIRCUITS, VOL. 60, NO. 9, SEPTEMBER 2025
Digital In-Memory Compute for Machine Learning
Applications With Input and Model Security
Maitreyi Ashok , Student Member, IEEE, Saurav Maji , Member, IEEE, Xin Zhang , Senior Member, IEEE,
John Cohn, Life Fellow, IEEE, and Anantha P. Chandrakasan , Fellow, IEEE
Abstract— Digital in-memory compute (IMC) architectures
allow for a balance of the high accuracy and precision necessary
for many machine learning applications, with high data reuse and
parallelism to reduce energy consumption. However, one often
overlooked parameter is security, which is necessary to maintain
the privacy and integrity of the accelerator. In this work,
we propose an IMC macro design that is protected against two
types of eavesdropping attacks, passive physical side-channels and
memory bus-probing. This is achieved through secure compute
that eliminates the need for random bits, local model decryption
with a lightweight cipher, and secret key generation reusing
existing IMC circuitry. These contributions provide side-channel
security against all practical attackers beyond 1 million samples,
while still operating without any effect on neural network
accuracy at 8.1 TOPS/W energy efficiency.
Index Terms— In-memory compute (IMC), machine learning,
physically unclonable functions, side-channel security.
I. INTRODUCTION
M
ACHINE learning accelerators are specialized hardware
for energy-efficient implementations of neural networks
required for a wide variety of applications, including natural
language processing, computer vision, and speech recognition
tasks. In contrast to traditional machine learning accelera-
tors [1], in-memory compute (IMC) co-locates the memory
and computation to minimize data transfer energy, while taking
advantage of high parallelism and data reuse to amortize
costs [2], [3], [4]. This is particularly useful since many
modern applications require large amounts of data, and the
energy of loading all this data far exceeds that of performing
the computation. While many initial implementations used
Received 31 July 2024; revised 19 November 2024 and 12 January 2025;
accepted 23 January 2025. Date of publication 6 February 2025; date of
current version 27 August 2025. This article was approved by Associate Editor
Meng-Fan Chang. This work was supported in part by the Massachusetts
Institute of Technology (MIT)-Massachusetts Institute of Technology (IBM)
Watson AI Lab, NSF Graduate Research Fellowship Program (GRFP) under
Grant 1745302; and in part by the MathWorks Engineering Fellowship.
(Corresponding author: Maitreyi Ashok.)
Maitreyi Ashok and Anantha P. Chandrakasan are with Massachusetts
Institute
of
Technology,
Cambridge,
MA
02139
USA
(e-mail:
maitreyi@alum.mit.edu).
Saurav Maji was with Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Cambridge,
MA 02139 USA. He is now with Intel Labs, Hillsboro, OR 97124 USA.
Xin Zhang is with the IBM T. J. Watson Research Center, Yorktown Heights,
NY 10598 USA, and also with MIT-IBM Watson AI Laboratory, Cambridge,
MA 02142 USA.
John Cohn is with the MIT-IBM Watson AI Laboratory, Cambridge,
MA 02142 USA.
Color versions of one or more figures in this article are available at
https://doi.org/10.1109/JSSC.2025.3534753.
Digital Object Identifier 10.1109/JSSC.2025.3534753
current- or charge-based computing within memory cells to
perform multiply and accumulate operations in the analog
domain, more recent works have proposed digital IMC to
achieve some of the benefits of analog IMC, while still provid-
ing the high bitwidths and accuracy levels necessary for many
practical workloads, especially with technology scaling [5],
[6], [7]. Digital IMC interleaves the memory bitcells and
computation logic to minimize data transfer distance and
energy but still performs the computation with logic gates that
are robust to noise and mismatch.
ML workloads contain security risks that can be exploited
using physical attacks [8], [9], [10] to affect the privacy and
integrity of the device. The input activation to the accelerators
can reflect private data that is being collected on an IoT device,
such as images of faces or voice recordings, which should
not be leaked to an untrusted entity. Furthermore, knowledge
of the model stored in an accelerator can reveal multiple
vulnerabilities. For one, the weights are generally trained using
private training datasets that can be revealed once the model is
known [11], [12]. In addition, knowledge of the weights of an
accelerator allows an attacker to perform targeted adversarial
attacks through methods such as RowHammer [13], [14], [15],
which affects the computation integrity. Finally, the process of
training these specialized ML algorithms generally requires a
significant amount of man and machine hours and thus must
be protected as private IP for competitive advantage.
This work proposes a secure digital IMC accelerator that
can protect against SCAs and BPAs. The key contributions
are listed below.
1) Computing with SCA secure MACs that take advantage
of natively secure gates to eliminate fresh random bits
and reduce latency, with no impact on neural network
accuracy.
2) Performing model decryption with a lightweight cipher
on-chip for BPA security.
3) Generating a secret key on-chip to maintain statistical
security guarantees of the cipher with a minimal over-
head physically unclonable function that reuses IMC
SRAM.
Section II describes the threat model and assumptions we
make about the attacker, as well as some prior work that
addresses these same scenarios. Section III discusses the key
contributions of this work. The security and performance
measurement results of this implementation are provided in
Section IV. Section V concludes and suggests some directions
for future work.
0018-9200 © 2025 IEEE. All rights reserved, including rights for text and data mining, and training of artificial intelligence
and similar technologies. Personal use is permitted, but republication/redistribution requires IEEE permission.
See https://www.ieee.org/publications/rights/index.html for more information.
Authorized licensed use limited to: University of Electronic Science and Tech of China. Downloaded on August 13,2026 at 04:10:36 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

===== PAGE 2 =====
ASHOK et al.: DIGITAL IMC FOR MACHINE LEARNING APPLICATIONS WITH INPUT AND MODEL SECURITY
3391
II. BACKGROUND
A. Threat Model
We assume that the attacker can perform two types
of attacks—physical side-channel and bus probing attacks
(BPAs). Other attacks, such as software-based or micro-
architectural side channels, active fault injection, and foundry
Trojan insertion are out of scope for this work and can be
addressed with parallel protections proposed in literature [16],
[17], [18], [19].
Side-channel
attacks
(SCAs)
use
unintended
leakage
sources to reconstruct data or operations on-chip [8], [20],
[21]. Specifically, physical power and electromagnetic (EM)
SCAs take advantage of the direct relation between CMOS
circuit operation and the current consumption. Power SCAs
measure these different currents directly by measuring the
voltage drop across a shunt resistor on the power rail [22].
However, EM SCAs can non-invasively use a probe to measure
the EM fields resulting from the spatially distributed current
flows [23]. For this work, we assume that attackers are limited
to a practical number of samples they can collect before
their presence is detected. Using these side-channel traces to
perform template- or correlation-based attacks, an attacker can
passively predict the data being processed in the computation
operation.
Bus-probing attacks are also relevant to ML accelerator
applications. Since standard models are too large to be stored
entirely on-chip, weights are fed from off-chip memory during
the inference operation [1]. With traditional packaging meth-
ods, this happens across exposed PCB traces for data lines that
can easily be tapped by the attacker to read out the model [24].
Furthermore, storage of the model in off-chip non-volatile
memory allows for cold-boot attacks that can recover data
even when the device is powered off [25], [26]. A BPA on a
naive implementation can easily reconstruct the entire neural
network structure by collecting the digital weights and biases
during the data loading and computation of each layer.
These attacks can be performed with physical access to the
system being attacked, or through remote or far-field attacks
that have been proposed in prior work [27], [28]. We also
assume that the attacker can perform full reverse engineering
of the chip for complete knowledge of the architecture down
to the transistor-level circuits [29]. This allows the attacker to
know the control flow and macro operation, but it is still too
expensive to quantify small mismatch-dependent variations in
fabrication for a large number of chips.
B. Side-Channel Security
Prior works have addressed ML side-channel security
through algorithmic masking and equalization methods [30],
[31]. Maji et al. [30] addressed SCA security for tradi-
tional accelerators through a threshold implementation (TI),
where each computation is split up into decorrelated shares.
By applying this protection to all neural network computations,
the accelerator is secure for an infinite number of attack
samples. The area and energy overheads are lowered somewhat
by using a shift operation to perform multiplies, but this poses
a limitation that weights must be powers of 2. In addition, the
ideal TI design requires a constant source of random bits every
clock cycle.
An empirical protection that is instead intended for practical
limitations is provided in [31]. Some security is provided by
shuffling the MAC operations in time and space across the
processing elements. In addition, the power consumption for
each set of inputs and weights is estimated and compensated
for with an on-chip DAC that attempts to have constant total
chip power consumption. While this method provides a voltage
scaling agnostic and block-level protection, it also requires a
random sequence generator for the shuffling.
Both these prior works focus on security for conventional
accelerator architectures. While the requirements for constant
random bits were not a limitation in these implementations,
they cannot be applied to IMC. IMC macros have thousands or
even millions of multiply-and-accumulates (MACs) in parallel
each clock cycle. If each required even a small number of
random bits, this would become prohibitively expensive with
the pseudorandom number generation (PRNG) cost overtak-
ing the computation. Thus, any security scheme for IMC
should eliminate the need for fresh random bits during the
operation.
C. Bus Probing Security
BPA security has been provided in prior works through
block-level algorithmic or fine-grained circuit-level protec-
tions. Maji et al. [30] and Fang et al. [31] used a trusted
execution environment-like architecture, where the model is
stored in an encrypted form off-chip, and only decrypted
on-chip when needed. By using ciphers such as AES [31]
and Trivium [30], these works provide cryptographic security
guarantees. However, this mathematical security assumes the
presence of a secret key. If this key must be read from off-
chip, that transmission can be probed and the security of the
cipher is lost.
Security from probing attacks of non-volatile IMC data is
instead focused on in [32]. Each bitcell stores the correct
value and its inverse, and decryption is performed as part
of the compute by charging or discharging the bitline. This
implements a low overhead XOR cipher but can lead to security
flaws if the key is reused. Thus, we need a key as long as the
entire neural network model [33], which would be expensive
to generate and provide from off-chip.
III. CHIP DESIGN
The overall architecture of the macro with key contributions
highlighted is shown in Fig. 1. The baseline architecture
follows that of [5], using a bit-serial computation of 1–8 bit
activations and weight precisions that are a multiple of 4.
The SRAM consists of eight columns, each with 128 rows of
4-bit weights. The columns are interleaved with 1-bit XNOR
multiply gates, and each column contains an adder tree and
accumulator. Multiple columns can be concatenated for higher
weight precision. In addition, low area and power overhead
model decryption and key generation circuits are included
external to the SRAM bank.
Authorized licensed use limited to: University of Electronic Science and Tech of China. Downloaded on August 13,2026 at 04:10:36 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

===== PAGE 3 =====
3392
IEEE JOURNAL OF SOLID-STATE CIRCUITS, VOL. 60, NO. 9, SEPTEMBER 2025
Fig. 1.
Block diagram of the proposed secure macro with Boolean-shared digital IMC for SCA security, model decryption on-chip for BPA security, and a
secure key generated on-chip.
A. Side-Channel Secure Compute
The MAC computation is done using a Boolean-sharing
methodology for side-channel security. The secret sharing
scheme is similar to cryptographic multi-party computation,
where n parties split information in a way that it can only be
recovered if at least x of them collude [34], [35]. With Boolean
masking, every digital bit is split such that all n shares (which
are seemingly random when observed alone) are required to
know the original value [36], [37], [38]. Each logic function
is also split to receive and operate on strict subsets of the
input shares, such that each subfunction’s computation and
thus the total circuit’s power consumption is unrelated to actual
data.
In this work, a Boolean-shared implementation with three
shares is chosen to achieve first-order security. As in
prior work for neural network side-channel protections in
realistic conditions [30], [39], [40], we assume that the
eavesdropper is limited to first-order attacks and cannot col-
lect enough data for higher-order attacks [41], [42], [43].
This is especially fitting in IMC, with the high num-
ber of bits being processed in parallel. If necessary, the
design described here could be directly extended with more
shares and more complex shared functions for higher-order
security.
One particular type of Boolean sharing, called a TI, provides
provable security against SCA attacks of various orders, but it
comes at the cost of large overheads [30], [37]. Specifically,
one of the most difficult conditions to satisfy is uniformity,
which requires that each of the shared representations has
equal probability for any given unshared input. This ensures
that only bias in the distribution of unshared values contributes
to any bias in the shared version [44]. Some common func-
tions, such as AND gates, do not produce uniform outputs given
uniform inputs with a minimal number of shares. This can be
solved by using more shares, at the expense of much larger
circuits [45]. Alternately, the output shares can be refreshed
with independent random bits to generate uniform inputs for
the successive gates [46].
Fig. 2.
Comparison of conventional AND and proposed XNOR multiply in
shared format.
In this work, we use a relaxed uniformity requirement that
targets practical attacker levels rather than ideal security and
saves on these overheads. Specifically, we require that our
circuits satisfy the following properties for a function t =
F(b, c) shared as (t1, t2, t3) = Fsh((b1, b2, b3), (c1, c2, c3)).
1) Correctness: If b = b1 ⊕b2 ⊕b3, c = c1 ⊕c2 ⊕c3, then
t = t1 ⊕t2 ⊕t3.
2) Non-Completeness: If Fsh = {F1, F2, F3}, then each of
F j uses a proper subset of {b1, b2, b3} and {c1, c2, c3}.
3) Approximate Uniformity: Each individual sub-circuit
output is uniform. Non-jointly uniform outputs are com-
bined after approximate refreshing (not with random
bits).
Approximate uniformity is particularly acceptable for IMC
implementations, which have many parallel operations with
unrelated weights and activations, and thus higher attacker
SNR compared to typical accelerators.
1) Multiplier:
In a typical bit-serial computation with
multi-bit weights and activations [5], multiply operations are
implemented with AND or NOR gates. However, these contain
nonlinear logic, so the multiply between each activation and
weight share cannot be performed independently. Furthermore,
these require remasking with random bits or utilizing more
input shares to maintain uniformity and registers on the out-
puts to maintain non-completeness and glitch resistance [43].
Authorized licensed use limited to: University of Electronic Science and Tech of China. Downloaded on August 13,2026 at 04:10:36 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

===== PAGE 4 =====
ASHOK et al.: DIGITAL IMC FOR MACHINE LEARNING APPLICATIONS WITH INPUT AND MODEL SECURITY
3393
Implemented in standard TI form, each AND 1-bit multiplier
would require the logic shown in Fig. 2, which contains
48 gate equivalents and 2 random bits per clock cycle. How-
ever, this is not scalable with in-memory compute, where there
are many parallel multiply operations.
We can achieve significant savings by using a natively
secure linear XNOR gate for the multiply. The linearity allows
for computing each share independently and maintains uni-
formity and glitch resistance without random bits or registers
after the multiply. The standard four transistor transmission
gate implementation can be used for the XOR gates, for a
total of six gate equivalents per multiply (each XNOR has
four additional transistors for inverters on the weight inputs
to balance the SRAM bitcell loads for the PUF operation
described in Section III-B2) and no random bits necessary.
However, directly substituting
AND for
XNOR gates will
not lead to a proper computation. For arithmetic correct-
ness, some modifications to the neural network compute are
necessary.
In general, XNOR-based multiplication is used for binary
neural networks, where working with +1 and −1 values
provides better range and efficiency compared to 0 and 1
[47], [48]. However, most practical tasks require higher bit
precisions. Traditionally, since both activations and weights
need to be in the same format, implementations with binary
weights and higher precision activations require both to be in
2’s complement representation. Instead, [7] stores the multibit
activation as a sum of powers of 2 multiplied by +1 and −1,
so that binary weights can also be +1 or −1, which restores
neural network accuracy.
A similar idea is utilized in this work to maximize the
usage of natively secure XNOR gates, but without limiting the
weights to binary. We propose a method to use multi-bit XNOR
computation for computing the MAC of multi-bit weights and
activations to reduce Boolean-sharing overheads. The details
of this method are presented below.
We first describe the case of signed weights and signed
activation values. Each signed value (SV) is a sum of binary
weighted +1 and −1 s, SV = Pn
i=0 2i × (−1)1−bi. This is
represented in a binary value (BV) format on which com-
putation is performed, which ranges from all 0 s (minimum
negative) to all 1 s (maximum positive). While the SV is
limited to odd values, we can store a 2× wider range in
values (e.g., 4 bits can store −15 to 15), so the neural network
can be retrained without any expected loss in accuracy. The
conversion between SV and BV can be expressed as SV =
2BV −(2n −1).
We now prove that multiplication with XNOR and standard
binary addition (output of IMC is BVout), as defined in (1),
provides the correct MAC value after constant factors, as
shown in (8) are applied (output after conversion is SVout).
For this, we define the bitwidth of the activation as na, the
bitwidth of the weight as nw, and the number of inputs (IMC
rows) being added as r. The IMC computation works in a bit
serial activation format [49], [50]
BVout =
0
X
i=na−1
2i
r
X
j=0
nw−1
X
k=0
2k × ba,i j ⊕bw, jk
(1)
BVout =
0
X
i=na−1
2i
r
X
j=0



nw−1
X
k=0
2k × bw, jk,
if ba,i j = 1
nw−1
X
k=0
2k × bw, jk,
if ba,i j = 0
(2)
BVout =
0
X
i=na−1
2i
r
X
j=0
(
BVw, j,
if ba,i j = 1
BVw, j,
if ba,i j = 0.
(3)
By the definition of the SV and BV conversion, we find that
inverting BV is the same as negating SV. Thus,
BVout =
0
X
i=na−1
2i
r
X
j=0
 
(−1)1−ba,i jSVw, j + 2nw −1
2
!
(4)
BVout =
r
X
j=0
SVw, j
2
0
X
i=na−1
2i(−1)1−ba,i j
+
r
X
j=0
0
X
i=na−1
2i(2nw −1)
2
(5)
BVout =
r
X
j=0
SVw, j × SVa, j
2
+ 2nw −1
2
× r
0
X
i=na−1
2i
(6)
BVout = SVout
2
+ (2nw −1)(2na −1)
2
× r
(7)
SVout = 2 × BVout −(2nw −1)(2na −1)r.
(8)
This expression provides the correction factor for the true
accumulator output from the one computed by the macro, with
constant terms determined by only the network bitwidths and
sizes, which can easily be precomputed off-chip.
A similar method can also be used for unsigned activations
with signed weights, such as those that result from the output
of ReLU activation functions. In this case, the unsigned value
(UV) of the activation and BV used for computing are the
same. We can find the correction factor similarly for XOR
multiplication, by continuing from (6), to get SVout = BVout −
(((2nw −1)(2na −1)r)/2) + ((2na −1)/2) Pr
j=0 SVw, j. While
this factor does require the sum of all weights in the MAC
operation, this does not change for different input activations
and can also be precomputed and stored.
We also confirm that restricting weights and activations to
odd values only has no effect on neural network accuracy
with some test cases shown in Table I. Quantization-aware
training [51] is used for both standard and odd quantization
results. Since odd quantization does not limit the amount
of information that can be stored in the network, and the
digital IMC computation is only affected by quantization
noise, we expect these results to apply to other test cases and
networks without loss of generality.
2) Adder Tree: After performing the multiplication with
XNOR gates, the partial products from the rows are combined
with standard digital addition. In traditional digital IMC imple-
mentations, this is done with a ripple carry adder tree [5].
While the sharing of the carry computation for a full adder is
natively uniform, that of a half adder is not since it uses an
AND gate. Thus, we avoid half adders to eliminate the need for
random bits for refreshing. In addition, even though the sum
computation is linear with shares computed independently,
Authorized licensed use limited to: University of Electronic Science and Tech of China. Downloaded on August 13,2026 at 04:10:36 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

===== PAGE 5 =====
3394
IEEE JOURNAL OF SOLID-STATE CIRCUITS, VOL. 60, NO. 9, SEPTEMBER 2025
TABLE I
ACCURACY COMPARISON OF STANDARD QUANTIZATION (ODD AND EVEN
VALUES) AND XNOR-MULTIPLY QUANTIZATION (ONLY ODD VALUES)
Fig. 3.
Benefit of carry-save adder compared to ripple-carry for shared
implementations, as well as structure of adder tree in MAC computation logic.
a register is required on each output to maintain timing
synchronization with the carries (which require registers for
non-completeness).
However, latency can be decreased significantly by using a
carry-save adder format, where carry bits are not propagated
within the same add, as shown in Fig. 3 compared to the
ripple carry adder. Furthermore, by combining three operands
at a time, no half-adders are necessary in the adder tree. For
a standard carry save adder tree, the output of the last stage
is in carry save format, where each bit position has 2 bits
of information per share (carry and save values). We reduce
the latency further by eliminating the last two pipeline stages
of the adder tree and leaving the partial sum in a modified
carry-save format where some positions have 1 or 3 bits
of information instead. These last few additions are then
performed along with the bit-serial accumulator computations.
As mentioned in [52], the sum and carry output of each
adder are not jointly uniform. However, these values are never
combined directly, as they refer to different bit positions.
Instead, at least one of these outputs will pass through
another adder stage before being recombined, regardless of
the specifics of the digital logic synthesis. This is not always
enough to recover perfect joint uniformity of the values.
However, this intermediate logic with other unrelated bits
significantly reduces the biases in the sharing so that it is
approximately uniform. For the limited number of traces in
practical attacks, this slight deviation from ideal uniformity is
acceptable and will not lead to leakage of information.
For example, we look at three cases of a full adder with
different inputs: 1) when carry and sum are combined directly;
Fig. 4.
Plot of the probabilities of the possible sharings of each unshared
set of inputs to the full adder, along with the average coefficient of variation.
(a) CV = 0.44. (b) CV = 0.11. (c) CV = 0.01.
2) after the sum output is passed through an unrelated adder
stage; and 3) after both the sum and carry outputs are passed
through unrelated adder stages. We depict the uniformity of
each of these options in Fig. 4, which shows the probability
of the 64 ((22)3) different sharings for each of 8 (23) possible
triplets of unshared inputs to the full adder. As we can see, the
standard deviation becomes negligible compared to the mean
when we combine the sum and carry more indirectly, implying
approximate joint uniformity.
3) Bit
Serial
Accumulator:
The
adder
described
in
Section III-A2 generates a partial sum. This is then combined
over multiple clock cycles bit serially to multiply the multi-bit
activation by the weights. To gain the same benefits of
low latency and no random bits for half adder refreshing,
accumulation is also performed with a carry-save adder with a
modified carry-save adder representation. The reduction of bits
is done in two stages (completed in 1 clock cycle on positive
and negative clock edges).
However, when computing the first accumulation operation
(MSB of activation), some of the inputs of the previous
accumulation value need to be reset to zero. Adding shared
secret values with known zeroes is not secure, so it is necessary
to modify the compute operations to account for this, with the
options shown in Fig. 5. When possible, this can be done by
substituting addition operations with direct assignment of the
secret values.
However, this is not possible for 7 of the full adders that
contain reset 0 values. Instead of requiring 14 actual random
bits from a constantly running PRNG to represent the zeros
in a shared form ((s1 = r1, s2 = r2, and s3 = r1 ⊕r2),
we can use a method inspired by [53]. Here, we use 2 shares of
accumulator bits from previous computations to create random
shares of zero. Thus, fresh random bits are only required
one-time at the start of the operation for the chip. The main
requirement for these random shares of zero is that these
bits are jointly uniform with the corresponding partial sum
bits, even when the shared weight bits are the same between
computations. As with the design of the adder, we only require
computational rather than mathematical uniformity to reduce
overheads of remasking. This is confirmed with functional
Monte Carlo functional simulations of the compute circuitry
for different biases in the activation and weight input values,
as well as different frequencies of weight update.
B. BPA Security
All neural network computations require weight and activa-
tion inputs. For IoT applications where attackers have easy
access to devices, we assume the activations are fed from
Authorized licensed use limited to: University of Electronic Science and Tech of China. Downloaded on August 13,2026 at 04:10:36 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

===== PAGE 6 =====
ASHOK et al.: DIGITAL IMC FOR MACHINE LEARNING APPLICATIONS WITH INPUT AND MODEL SECURITY
3395
Fig. 5.
Special methods during MSB accumulation computation to maintain
uniformity.
an SCA secure ADC such as [54], [55], and [56]. However,
for practical neural networks, there are too many weights
to store completely on-chip. Thus, these must be fed from
an off-chip DRAM or NVM. Any SCA protections on-chip
are irrelevant if the attacker can directly measure the buses
transferring weight data between the DRAM and custom IC,
or perform a cold boot attack on the NVM. For this reason,
memory encryption should be used for off-chip storage [57].
The weights can then be decrypted on-chip when needed
before being used in compute.
1) Lightweight Cipher: A cryptographic cipher for encrypt-
ing and decrypting the weights provides mathematical guar-
antees of security, but we do not want this component to
add a large area or power overhead. In addition, the cipher
itself must be implemented in an SCA-secure fashion to
avoid information leakage during the decryption. We use the
ASCON cipher [58], the winner of the NIST Lightweight
Cryptography competition [59], which has been well-proven
for its area and energy efficiency. Key-generation and sharing
can be coordinated in advance through the PUF described in
Section III-B2. In addition, the cipher is relatively resilient to
SCAs, since determining the cipher’s state does not directly
lead to recovering the secret key for breaking future decryption
operations [58]. Furthermore, the ASCON implementation
is conducive to masking, with the lowest percent of AND
gates (which have high Boolean-sharing overheads) among
lightweight ciphers [60]. The other operations in the cipher
(NOT, XOR, and rotate) are all linear operations that can be
performed independently on the shares with minimal overhead.
Daemen [53] proposed a “Changing of the Guards” imple-
mentation of the Keccak [61] permutation, which uses various
bits of the state to remask other bits to maintain uniformity in
the nonlinear permutation. This method only requires 4 exter-
nal random bits at the start of the operation and no constant
random bits during the operation of the cipher. Since the base
nonlinear step of both the Keccak and ASCON permutation
are the same, we can use this same method for low overhead
threshold implemented SCA secure ASCON [62]. The block
diagram of the model decryption process is shown in Fig. 6.
2) Secret Key Generation: Cryptographic ciphers to decrypt
weights on-chip require a secret key, but feeding the key value
from off-chip is inherently insecure and can nullify the security
of later operations of the cipher. Techniques such as e-fuses
are vulnerable to SEM imaging that can read out whether
each fuse is connected [63]. Instead, physically unclonable
functions (PUFs) can be used to securely generate keys [64],
[65]. During manufacturer testing, a table of challenge and
response pairs of the PUF can be collected for each chip. Later
Fig. 6.
Block diagram of ASCON cipher implementation.
Fig. 7.
SRAM (a) bitcell and (b) timing diagram for use as PUF. If the right
(left) pull-down dominates, the PUF generates a 0 (1).
upon deployment, a certain key can be used by the cipher sim-
ply by evaluating the PUF on that specific challenge, without
being measurable to an external observer. The security of the
ASCON cipher allows for 2128 decryptions without changing
the key, which is a high enough security level for any practical
usage. In addition, the key can be refreshed occasionally with
a new challenge to achieve additional security.
Even so, a large PUF bank can be a significant area overhead
on the IC. Instead, we propose reusing the IMC circuitry for
the PUF. Much of the IMC consists of SRAM cells, which are
conducive to PUF circuits. Prior SRAM-based PUFs require
overwriting entire banks or multiple rows of SRAM to get
responses from one address [66], [67], [68]. Others require
additional peripheral circuitry such as level shifters and time
to digital converters to generate the PUF bits [69], [70].
Here, we propose a SRAM PUF that requires only a small
additional block of synthesized digital logic, by using the SCA
secure SRAM [Fig. 7(a) and (b)] of [71] as the bitcell. The
bitcell has a standard cell-type layout, with each set of three
vertically stacked cells forming one set of Boolean shares.
This arrangement leads to three differential bitlines vertically
routed within the width of each bitcell, where each pair is
routed on a different metal layer to reduce coupling between
shares without increasing the bitcell size further. Each bitcell
is also adjacent to the custom XNOR multiply gate, which
has horizontal connections to the activation driver and local
internal bitcell nodes.
An effective SRAM PUF requires a method of overriding
the stored data with the intrinsic preferred bitcell state due to
manufacturing variation (bits of key). The side-channel secure
bitcell already contains feedback-cut transistors that can be
used for this purpose. First, the feedback is cut and the inputs
to both separated inverters are predischarged. After this, the
feedback can be re-connected so that the SRAM settles to
Authorized licensed use limited to: University of Electronic Science and Tech of China. Downloaded on August 13,2026 at 04:10:36 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

===== PAGE 7 =====
3396
IEEE JOURNAL OF SOLID-STATE CIRCUITS, VOL. 60, NO. 9, SEPTEMBER 2025
0 or 1 based on which inverter is stronger, which can be read
out with standard SRAM read. Only the pre-existent data at a
specific wordline is erased as part of this evaluation, and this
can be minimized through sub-divided wordlines. This leads
to a noise-resistant and low-overhead PUF that can be used
throughout chip operation to generate reliable keys on demand.
Furthermore, error-correction and entropy extraction can be
added to further improve the randomness and robustness [72].
Resilience to noise is added through temporal majority
voting (TMV) [73] with successive evaluations of the same
bitcell. We allow a configurable number of evaluations to set
the robustness per use case. Since the finite-state machine
(FSM) is working on small groups of four key bits, it does leak
some data statistics even with Boolean sharing, particularly
since the repeated TMV operations increase attacker SNR. For
example, if we see power spikes corresponding to 11 counter
increments, it is known that three unshared bits are 1 s, and
the other is 0. Though this does not lead to full recovery of
the key, it may provide valuable information that reduces the
difficulty of brute force attacks on the cipher.
For this reason, we protect against this simple power anal-
ysis attack with differential operation in the TMV logic. The
sense amplifier already provides differential values after the
read, and both of these are provided to the FSM. This generates
constant switching activity regardless of the specifics of the
data and is enough to secure the key generation from SCAs
combined with the existing Boolean sharing.
We expect some degradation in PUF performance due to
small systematic differences being amplified. Biases in PUF
bits can be fixed through trimming, where cells with strong
dependence on external factors and less intrinsic mismatch
can be masked [73], [74], [75] or have debiasing methods
applied [76], [77]. While negative-bias temperature instability
aging typically affects SRAM PUFs, the near randomness
of the weights stored during normal operation alternates
which transistor is experiencing aging and partially offsets the
effects [78]. Furthermore, noise resilience can be improved
through burn-in hardening. This method has been used in sim-
ilar cross-coupled bitcells to direct aging for each cell in the
direction of the existing mismatch, forcing it to have an even
greater propensity for settling in its preferred direction [73].
IV. MEASUREMENT RESULTS
This design, shown in Fig. 8(a), was taped out in 14-nm
CMOS technology. Multiple facets of the chip are evaluated
as detailed in Sections IV-A–IV-C.
A. Side-Channel Security
The independent digital circuits are individually imple-
mented on a Chip Whisperer [79] CW305 FPGA platform
[Fig. 8(b)] to achieve high targeted SNR and to demonstrate
the strong SCA security guarantees in real-world scenar-
ios. For example, the independent pipeline stages (and even
sub-parts of just one) can be implemented and attacked sep-
arately to minimize background switching. If SCA security
remains beyond 1 million measurements in even these ideal
Fig. 8.
(a) Custom ASIC micrograph and (b) Chip Whisperer targeted SNR
setup.
tests, this implies even stronger security guarantees in real-
world scenarios, once parallel operations and unrelated activity
lower the attacker SNR. Due to the algorithmic nature of
Boolean sharing protections, security to SCA on an FPGA also
holds for custom IC implementations. Power SCA security
directly translates to EM SCA security, since computations of
individual shares will be too spatially close to resolve with
current EM probes. Furthermore, testing on a dedicated attack
platform like the Chip Whisperer allows for artificially boost-
ing attacker SNR with multiple parallel copies and utilizing
the proven high SNR measurement circuitry.
Correlation power analysis (CPA) simulates a realistic attack
on the system where the attacker controls one varying input
and tries to recover a fixed secret input [80]. For compute
logic, we consider the varying input to be activations, and the
fixed input to be model weights. Since weights are stationary
in the IMC SRAM throughout the computation, we maintain
the same sharing of the weights throughout all of the attacker
measurements. However, since activations are streaming in
real-time, these are newly shared for each sample. The results
for CPA of each sub-block of the SCA-protected multiply
and adder tree are shown in Fig. 9(a), when compared to the
unprotected (non-pipelined) version in Fig. 10(a). We see that
the correct secret value (red) has indistinguishable correlation
values from the other incorrect secret value guesses (gray) for
each individual compute block for the protected implementa-
tion. The same is true for each of the two accumulator pipeline
stages shown in Fig. 9(b), when compared to the unprotected
accumulator in Fig. 10(b).
We also perform CPA for the cipher in the Chip Whisperer
platform, with a fixed key and varying nonce. As is standard
in the literature, SCA analysis is performed at the end of the
initialization stage when the key is directly combined with the
state [62], [81]. We see in Fig. 9(c) that the true key value is
indistinguishable from other guesses in terms of the correlation
to the power measurements.
Differential power analysis (DPA) is used to test the
algorithmic security guarantees, by attempting to differenti-
ate between a circuit operating on fixed and random secret
inputs [22], [82]. By testing if there is a statistically significant
difference between side channels from random weights and
inputs versus a fixed weight and input, we determine whether
there is any exploitable data-dependent leakage. In the high
SNR attack scenario, we find that the unprotected circuits
have significant differences (large T -value) with less than
Authorized licensed use limited to: University of Electronic Science and Tech of China. Downloaded on August 13,2026 at 04:10:36 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

===== PAGE 8 =====
ASHOK et al.: DIGITAL IMC FOR MACHINE LEARNING APPLICATIONS WITH INPUT AND MODEL SECURITY
3397
Fig. 9.
CPA results—protected (a) multiply + adder tree pipeline stage
sub-blocks, (b) accumulator pipeline stage sub-blocks, and (c) ASCON cipher.
Fig. 10.
CPA results—unprotected (a) multiply + adder tree and (b) accu-
mulator.
Fig. 11.
DPA results on unprotected and protected ASIC compute.
1000 samples, whereas the protected circuits do not have
significant differences (small T -value) even after 1 million
samples.
In addition to high-attack SNR tests, we confirm the SCA
security of the custom IMC on-chip with DPA. The results
for the unprotected baseline and protected compute are shown
in Fig. 11. As we can see, the unprotected version has large
T -values with less than 5000 samples, indicating a statisti-
cally significant difference between fixed and random data.
However, the protected implementation has small T -values for
more than 1 million samples, so there is no reason to believe
exploitable differences in side-channel traces exist.
We read from the IMC SRAM using a differential
and shared TMV FSM. We confirm that this operation is
SCA-resilient on the Chip Whisperer by attempting to recon-
struct the key using a convolutional neural network [83], which
was shown to have high SCA accuracy in prior work [54], [55].
Since we are working with Boolean-shared keys with 3 shares,
we consider the rms error of guessing the unshared and shared
key values. The results (Table II) show that the difficulty of
TABLE II
RMSE OF KEY-VALUE PREDICTION FROM TMV SCA
TABLE III
PUF NIST TEST RESULTS
TABLE IV
PUF STABILITY RESULTS
guessing the key increases significantly with Boolean-shared
and differential logic protections applied, as expected.
B. PUF Performance
We collect the PUF challenge–response pairs after on-chip
TMV and off-chip Von Neumann debiasing [84]. We test these
against the NIST 800-22 randomness standards [85], and as in
prior work with limited bits [70], we confirm that all applicable
NIST tests pass for each of the five chips with all p-values
larger than 0.01, as shown in Table III. Thus, we have no
reason to believe the PUF sequences are not random. The
most common value estimator also indicates the min-entropy
for each chip is ∼0.91–0.93.
We also test the PUF’s resilience to noise for various
levels of TMV and error correction (Table IV). While raising
the TMV time can increase stability significantly, it is not
enough for the cells with very low mismatch that are instead
decided by transient noise. For these, we can achieve a 0%
bit-error rate with an off-chip BCH code [86]. Masking out
unstable cells would also be a solution to reduce the number
of error correction bits. Finally, we evaluate the inter- and
intra-key hamming distance (HD) to validate the uniqueness
and stability of the keys. Fig. 12 shows the intra-key HD is
close to 0 (stable), whereas the inter-key HD is close to half
the key bitwidth, 192 (unique).
While this initial demonstration shows the potential of the
feedback-cut PUF, techniques used in orthogonal PUF works
to improve performance can also be applied to this topology.
Authorized licensed use limited to: University of Electronic Science and Tech of China. Downloaded on August 13,2026 at 04:10:36 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

===== PAGE 9 =====
3398
IEEE JOURNAL OF SOLID-STATE CIRCUITS, VOL. 60, NO. 9, SEPTEMBER 2025
Fig. 12.
HD between measurements of same key and different keys.
TABLE V
MACRO PERFORMANCE METRICS COMPARISON
For example, dark bit masking can turn off unstable bits to
reduce TMV length and BCH code size, burn-in hardening
can increase the mismatch between inverter arms and improve
stability, and randomness extraction can maximize the entropy
per bit [73]. In addition, the symmetry of the bitcell can be
improved using careful transistor and interconnect layout for
reduction of systematic variation.
C. Overall Performance
We evaluate the performance of the macro according to
standard ML accelerator metrics. The throughput, energy
efficiency, and area efficiency for different data bitwidths are
shown in Table V for the unprotected and protected macros at a
0.55-V supply and 80-MHz operation frequency. The protected
implementation achieves a maximum energy efficiency of
8.1 TOPS/W at a 0.50-V supply voltage. The scaling of the
frequency is limited to 100 MHz due to the setup of the test
environment, with synchronous communication and data input
from the FPGA.
The throughput is higher for the protected implementation
due to the pipelining of the adder tree and accumulation
required for satisfying the non-completeness property of the
Boolean sharing. If we also pipeline the unprotected imple-
mentation, we would see similar improvements in throughput,
potentially at the expense of minor increases in area due to
the additional flip-flops. While the latency of the protected
version will have some overheads due to the model decryption
before writing into SRAM, the computed latency dominates
for typical models, so the ∼3.2× increase in weight loading
latency is not significant overall. Particularly, weight decryp-
tion operations occur quite infrequently for IMC, since the
weight is loaded once and many computations are performed
on it before reloading to maximize data reuse and energy
efficiency, and thus any overheads to the power consumption
of data loading are also amortized.
On the other hand, there are reductions in the energy and
area efficiency due to Boolean sharing. The custom memory
bitcell and multiply columns increase in area by a factor
5.3×, due to a combination of each cell being split into three
Fig. 13.
Breakdown of power and area consumption of various components
of secure IMC circuitry compared to baseline.
independent shares and the 2 additional PUF feedback-cut
transistors. However, the major contributor to energy increase
is the adder tree, which is generally the dominant component
of any digital IMC implementation. The post-synthesis area
of a full adder increases by 14.2×, which causes the entire
adder tree to increase by 15.5×. In terms of area efficiency,
this causes the adder and accumulator to be 6.4× less area-
efficient. The power breakdown for the various portions of the
circuitry for the unprotected and protected implementation is
also shown in Fig. 13. These results are in line with prior
work [30], which saw a 6.1× and 5.7× decrease in area
efficiency and energy efficiency, respectively, for the multiplier
circuitry alone. While this leads to a high energy and area
overhead, security cannot be achieved without some costs and
our optimizations ensure that we do not have even higher
overheads.
This work is compared with prior secure ML accelerators
in Table VI. Comparison can be made across different archi-
tectures and applications by assuming full utilization of the
macro and finding the overhead compared to its own baseline
implementation. The area and power overheads include the
IMC macro, cipher, and PUF FSM and are calculated as
the ratio of the unprotected macro’s efficiency (in TOPS/W
and TOPS/mm2) to that of the protected macro. Compared
to the other work, this is the first to consider digital IMC
security. In addition, it includes much more rigorous testing
of SCA security compared to prior IMC security work, using
CPA [80] and test vector leakage assessment (TVLA) [82]
tests. Furthermore, the security is added without placing addi-
tional limitations on bit precision or neural network accuracy.
Most importantly, it does not require random bits during the
operation and only needs one-time bits during chip configura-
tion. With these protections, we have BPA and SCA beyond
1 million attack measurements even in ideally high-attack SNR
conditions, which ensures security will last significantly longer
for realistic operation.
D. Scalability
While this work presents a small macro for demonstration
of the security concepts, a commercial-scale accelerator will
have many macros in parallel. This can be considered similar
to the case of parallel processing in chiplets, each of which
performs a small part of a larger task before the outputs
are integrated [87], [88]. While the individual macros will
perform side-channel secure computation in the same way,
Authorized licensed use limited to: University of Electronic Science and Tech of China. Downloaded on August 13,2026 at 04:10:36 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

===== PAGE 10 =====
ASHOK et al.: DIGITAL IMC FOR MACHINE LEARNING APPLICATIONS WITH INPUT AND MODEL SECURITY
3399
TABLE VI
COMPARISON TO PRIOR WORK
they will create macro outputs that will need to be accumu-
lated. We expect that the side-channel secure co-processor,
which combines the carry-save outputs and the shares, will
also be used to combine the outputs of the separate secure
macros. With many macros operating in parallel, we also have
higher attacker difficulty in determining data from total power
consumption, and thus the security level can be lowered to
take advantage of this with less secure gates.
As the system size increases and we have multiple macros
in parallel, there are a few options to ensure the weight
decryption and loading overheads do not dominate. For one,
we can use the ASCON-128a scheme to produce 128-bit
data blocks within 8 clock cycles, rather than 64 bits within
6 clocks. Furthermore, in the case of high-bandwidth memory
interfaces for loading data from off-chip, we can have a
separate ASCON instance for each instance of the macro, since
this only contributes 16% of the total macro area and will
limit any latency overheads from decryption to our demon-
strated levels. Furthermore, as the memory size increases, there
will be more PUF bits available. Depending on the off-chip
memory encryption procedure, either one key (generated by a
combination of PUF bits across the different macros) can be
used to decrypt the weights written to all macros, or a separate
key can be generated and used for each individual ASCON
instance. In either case, the greater availability of PUF bits
ensures that the most optimal cells can be chosen through
trimming or masking for key randomness and stability.
V. CONCLUSION
This work provides a generalized solution for secure digital
IMC that can provide privacy and integrity in a wide variety of
ML applications such as AR/VR and health monitoring. This is
done by eliminating fresh random bits for security, minimizing
compute latency overheads, and avoiding restrictions on neural
network architectures.
Future work should focus on further decreasing the area
and energy overheads of the protections, for more convenient
adoption in real systems. This can be done by better charac-
terizing the attacker’s attack abilities, and potentially finding
a better optimal point in the tradeoff between security level
and Boolean-sharing overheads. In addition, methods such as
approximate computing [7] can be used for further exploitation
of natively secure compute gates, which still allow for high
accuracy due to the resilience of neural network computations.
ACKNOWLEDGMENT
The authors thank Kevin Tien, Cliff Osborn, Seiji Munetoh,
and Kohji Hosokawa for tape-out support and valuable discus-
sions; Cyril Cabral, Kai Schleupen, and John Timmerwilke
for packaging solutions; Dirk Pfeiffer, Daniel Friedman, Dan
Dechene, David Cox, Mukesh Khare for management support;
and Dimple Kochar for assistance with revisions. They also
thank members of the Energy Efficient Circuits and Systems
Group at MIT.
REFERENCES
[1] Y.-H. Chen, T. Krishna, J. Emer, and V. Sze, “Eyeriss: An energy-
efficient
reconfigurable
accelerator
for
deep
convolutional
neural
networks,” IEEE J. Solid-State Circuits, vol. 52, no. 1, pp. 127–138,
Jan. 2017.
[2] N. R. Shanbhag and S. K. Roy, “Comprehending in-memory computing
trends via proper benchmarking,” in Proc. IEEE Custom Integr. Circuits
Conf. (CICC), Apr. 2022, pp. 1–7.
[3] Z. Jiang, S. Yin, J.-S. Seo, and M. Seok, “C3SRAM: An in-memory-
computing SRAM macro based on robust capacitive coupling computing
mechanism,” IEEE J. Solid-State Circuits, vol. 55, no. 7, pp. 1888–1897,
Jul. 2020.
[4] J. Zhang, Z. Wang, and N. Verma, “In-memory computation of a
machine-learning classifier in a standard 6T SRAM array,” IEEE
J. Solid-State Circuits, vol. 52, no. 4, pp. 915–924, Apr. 2017.
[5] Y.-D. Chih et al., “16.4 an 89 TOPS/W and 16.3 TOPS/mm2 all-digital
SRAM-based full-precision compute-in memory macro in 22 nm for
machine-learning edge applications,” in IEEE Int. Solid-State Circuits
Conf. (ISSCC) Dig. Tech. Papers, vol. 64, Feb. 2021, pp. 252–254.
[6] H. Fujiwara et al., “A 5-nm 254-TOPS/W 221-TOPS/mm2 fully-digital
computing-in-memory macro supporting wide-range dynamic-voltage-
frequency scaling and simultaneous MAC and write operations,” in
IEEE Int. Solid-State Circuits Conf. (ISSCC) Dig. Tech. Papers, vol. 65,
Feb. 2022, pp. 1–3.
[7] D. Wang, C. T. Lin, G. K. Chen, P. Knag, R. K. Krishnamurthy, and
M. Seok, “DIMC: 2219TOPS/W 2569F2/b digital in-memory comput-
ing macro in 28 nm based on approximate arithmetic hardware,” in
IEEE Int. Solid-State Circuits Conf. (ISSCC) Dig. Tech. Papers, vol. 65,
May 2022, pp. 266–268.
[8] M. Méndez Real and R. Salvador, “Physical side-channel attacks on
embedded neural networks: A survey,” Appl. Sci., vol. 11, no. 15,
p. 6790, Jul. 2021. [Online]. Available: https://www.mdpi.com/2076-
3417/11/15/6790
[9] L. Wei, B. Luo, Y. Li, Y. Liu, and Q. Xu, “I know what you see: Power
side-channel attack on convolutional neural network accelerators,” in
Proc. 34th Annu. Comput. Secur. Appl. Conf., New York, NY, USA,
Dec. 2018, pp. 393–406, doi: 10.1145/3274694.3274696.
[10] L. Batina, S. Bhasin, D. Jap, and S. Picek, “CSI NN: Reverse engi-
neering of neural network architectures through electromagnetic side
channel,” in Proc. USENIX Secur. Symp., 2019, pp. 515–532.
[11] G. Ateniese, L. V. Mancini, A. Spognardi, A. Villani, D. Vitali, and
G. Felici, “Hacking smart machines with smarter ones: How to extract
meaningful data from machine learning classifiers,” Int. J. Secur. Netw.,
vol. 10, no. 3, pp. 137–150, Sep. 2015, doi: 10.1504/IJSN.2015.071829.
Authorized licensed use limited to: University of Electronic Science and Tech of China. Downloaded on August 13,2026 at 04:10:36 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

===== PAGE 11 =====
3400
IEEE JOURNAL OF SOLID-STATE CIRCUITS, VOL. 60, NO. 9, SEPTEMBER 2025
[12] R.
Shokri,
M.
Stronati,
C.
Song,
and
V.
Shmatikov,
“Mem-
bership
inference
attacks
against
machine
learning
models,”
in
Proc. IEEE Symp. Secur. Privacy (SP), Los Alamitos, CA, USA,
May 2017, pp. 3–18, doi: 10.1109/SP.2017.41. [Online]. Available:
https://doi.ieeecomputersociety.org/10.1109/SP.2017.41
[13] A.
Chakraborty,
M.
Alam,
V.
Dey,
A.
Chattopadhyay,
and
D. Mukhopadhyay, “Adversarial attacks and defences: A survey,”
2018, arXiv:1810.00069.
[14] O. Mutlu and J. S. Kim, “RowHammer: A retrospective,” IEEE
Trans. Comput.-Aided Design Integr. Circuits Syst., vol. 39, no. 8,
pp. 1555–1571, Aug. 2020.
[15] A. S. Rakin, Z. He, and D. Fan, “Bit-flip attack: Crushing neural network
with progressive bit search,” in Proc. IEEE/CVF Int. Conf. Comput. Vis.
(ICCV), Oct. 2019, pp. 1211–1220.
[16] S. Maji, K. Lee, C. Gongye, Y. Fei, and A. P. Chandrakasan,
“An energy-efficient neural network accelerator with improved resilience
against fault attacks,” IEEE J. Solid-State Circuits, vol. 59, no. 9,
pp. 3106–3116, Sep. 2024.
[17] P. Sun, B. Halak, and T. Kazmierski, “Towards hardware trojan resilient
design of convolutional neural networks,” in Proc. IEEE 35th Int. Syst.-
Chip Conf. (SOCC), Sep. 2022, pp. 1–6.
[18] H. Yu, P. Sun, B. Halak, K. Shanthakumar, and T. Kazmierski, “Tamper
resistant design of convolutional neural network hardware accelerator,”
in Proc. Asian Hardw. Oriented Secur. Trust Symp. (AsianHOST),
Dec. 2023, pp. 1–5.
[19] W. Hua, M. Umar, Z. Zhang, and G. E. Suh, “GuardNN: Secure
accelerator architecture for privacy-preserving deep learning,” in Proc.
59th ACM/IEEE Design Autom. Conf., New York, NY, USA, Jul. 2022,
pp. 349–354, doi: 10.1145/3489517.3530439.
[20] H. Chabanne, J. Danger, L. Guiga, and U. Kühne, “Side channel
attacks for architecture extraction of neural networks,” CAAI Trans.
Intell. Technol., vol. 6, no. 1, pp. 3–16, Mar. 2021. [Online]. Available:
https://ietresearch.onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/abs/10.1049/cit2.12026
[21] V. Meyers, D. Gnad, and M. Tahoori, “Active and passive physical
attacks on neural network accelerators,” IEEE Des. Test. IEEE Des. Test.
Comput., vol. 40, no. 5, pp. 70–85, May 2023.
[22] P. Kocher, J. Jaffe, and B. Jun, “Differential power analysis,” in Proc.
19th Annu. Int. Cryptol. Conf. Adv. Cryptol., Santa Barbara, CA, USE,
M. Wiener, Ed., Berlin, Germany: Springer, Aug. 1999, pp. 388–397.
[23] D. Agrawal, B. Archambeault, J. R. Rao, and P. Rohatgi, “The EM
side—Channel(s),” in Proc. Cryptograph. Hardw. Embedded Syst.-
CHES, B. S. Kaliski, ç. K. Koç, and C. Paar, Eds., Berlin, Germany:
Springer, Jan. 2003, pp. 29–45.
[24] W. Hua, Z. Zhang, and G. E. Suh, “Reverse engineering convolutional
neural networks through side-channel information leaks,” in Proc. 55th
ACM/ESDA/IEEE Design Autom. Conf. (DAC), New York, NY, USA,
Jun. 2018, pp. 1–6, doi: 10.1109/DAC.2018.8465773.
[25] M. Gruhn and T. Müller, “On the practicability of cold boot attacks,” in
Proc. Int. Conf. Availab., Rel. Secur., 2013, pp. 390–397.
[26] J. A. Halderman et al., “Lest we remember: Cold-boot attacks on
encryption keys,” Commun. ACM, vol. 52, no. 5, pp. 91–98, May 2009,
doi: 10.1145/1506409.1506429.
[27] R. Wang, H. Wang, and E. Dubrova, “Far field EM side-channel attack
on AES using deep learning,” in Proc. 4th ACM Workshop Attacks
Solutions Hardw. Secur., Nov. 2020, pp. 35–44.
[28] M. Zhao and G. E. Suh, “FPGA-based remote power side-channel
attacks,” in Proc. IEEE Symp. Secur. Privacy (SP), Jul. 2018,
pp. 229–244.
[29] S. E. Quadir et al., “A survey on chip to system reverse engineering,”
ACM J. Emerg. Technol. Comput. Syst., vol. 13, no. 1, pp. 1–34,
Apr. 2016, doi: 10.1145/2755563.
[30] S. Maji, U. Banerjee, S. H. Fuller, and A. P. Chandrakasan, “A thresh-
old implementation-based neural network accelerator with power and
electromagnetic side-channel countermeasures,” IEEE J. Solid-State
Circuits, vol. 58, no. 1, pp. 141–154, Jan. 2023.
[31] Q. Fang, L. Lin, H. Zhang, T. Wang, and M. Alioto, “Voltage scaling-
agnostic counteraction of side-channel neural net reverse engineering
via machine learning compensation and multi-level shuffling,” in Proc.
IEEE Symp. VLSI Technol. Circuits (VLSI Technol. Circuits), Jun. 2023,
pp. 1–2.
[32] Y.-C. Chiu et al., “A 22nm 4Mb STT-MRAM data-encrypted near-
memory computation macro with a 192GB/s read-and-decryption
bandwidth and 25.1–55.1TOPS/W 8b MAC for AI operations,” in IEEE
Int. Solid-State Circuits Conf. (ISSCC) Dig. Tech. Papers, vol. 65,
Feb. 2022, pp. 178–180.
[33] S. Huang, H. Jiang, X. Peng, W. Li, and S. Yu, “Secure XOR-CIM
engine: Compute-in-memory SRAM architecture with embedded XOR
encryption,” IEEE Trans. Very Large Scale Integr. (VLSI) Syst., vol. 29,
no. 12, pp. 2027–2039, Dec. 2021.
[34] A. Shamir, “How to share a secret,” Commun. ACM, vol. 22, no. 11,
pp. 612–613, Nov. 1979, doi: 10.1145/359168.359176.
[35] G. R. Blakley, “Safeguarding cryptographic keys,” in Proc. Int.
Workshop
Manag.
Requirements
Knowl.
(MARK),
Los Alamitos,
CA,
USA,
Jun.
1979,
pp.
313–318.
[Online].
Available:
https://doi.ieeecomputersociety.org/10.1109/AFIPS.1979.98
[36] O. Reparaz, B. Bilgin, S. Nikova, B. Gierlichs, and I. Verbauwhede,
“Consolidating masking schemes,” in Proc. Cryptol. ePrint Arch., 2015,
pp. 1–6. [Online]. Available: https://eprint.iacr.org/2015/719
[37] S. Nikova, C. Rechberger, and V. Rijmen, “Threshold implementations
against side-channel attacks and glitches,” in Proc. ICICS, vol. 4307.
Cham, Switzerland: Springer, Jan. 2006, pp. 529–545.
[38] H. Gross, S. Mangard, and T. Korak, “Domain-oriented masking:
Compact masked hardware implementations with arbitrary protection
order,” in Proc. ACM Workshop Theory Implement. Secur., New York,
NY, USA, Oct. 2016, p. 3, doi: 10.1145/2996366.2996426.
[39] A. Dubey, R. Cammarota, V. Suresh, and A. Aysu, “Guarding machine
learning hardware against physical side-channel attacks,” ACM J. Emerg.
Technol. Comput. Syst., vol. 18, no. 3, pp. 1–31, Apr. 2022, doi:
10.1145/3465377.
[40] A. Dubey, R. Cammarota, and A. Aysu, “BoMaNet: Boolean masking
of an entire neural network,” in Proc. IEEE/ACM Int. Conf. Comput.
Aided Design (ICCAD), New York, NY, USA, Nov. 2020, pp. 1–9, doi:
10.1145/3400302.3415649.
[41] S. Chari, C. S. Jutla, J. R. Rao, and P. Rohatgi, “Towards sound
approaches to counteract power-analysis attacks,” in Proc. 19th Annu.
Int. Cryptol. Conf., vol. 1666, M. Wiener, Ed., Berlin, Germany:
Springer, Aug. 1999, pp. 398–412.
[42] J. Daemen, M. Peeters, and G. V. Assche, “Bitslice ciphers and power
analysis attacks,” in Proc. Fast Softw. Encryption, G. Goos, J. Hartmanis,
J. van Leeuwen, and B. Schneier, Eds., Berlin, Germany: Springer,
Jan. 2001, pp. 134–149.
[43] O. Reparaz, B. Bilgin, S. Nikova, B. Gierlichs, and I. Verbauwhede,
“Consolidating masking schemes,” in 35th Annu. Cryptol. Conf. Adv.
Cryptol., R. Gennaro and M. Robshaw, Eds., Berlin, Germany: Springer,
2015, pp. 764–783.
[44] T. Beyne and B. Bilgin, “Uniform first-order threshold implementations,”
in Proc. Cryptol. ePrint Arch., 2016, pp. 1–8. [Online]. Available:
https://eprint.iacr.org/2016/715
[45] B. Bilgin, B. Gierlichs, S. Nikova, V. Nikov, and V. Rijmen, “Higher-
order threshold implementations,” in Proc. Cryptol. ePrint Arch., 2014,
pp. 1–9. [Online]. Available: https://eprint.iacr.org/2014/751
[46] B.
Bilgin,
J.
Daemen,
V.
Nikov,
S.
Nikova,
V.
Rijmen,
and
G. Van Assche, “Efficient and first-order DPA resistant implementations
of KECCAK,” in Smart Card Research and Advanced Applications,
A. Francillon and P. Rohatgi, Eds., Cham, Switzerland: Springer, 2014,
pp. 187–199.
[47] I. Hubara, M. Courbariaux, D. Soudry, R. El-Yaniv, and Y. Bengio,
“Binarized neural networks,” in Proc. Adv. Neural Inf. Process.
Syst., vol. 29, D. Lee, M. Sugiyama, U. Luxburg, I. Guyon, and
R. Garnett, Eds., Red Hook, NY, USA: Curran Associates, Feb. 2016,
pp. 4107–4115.
[Online].
Available:
https://proceedings.neurips.
cc/paper/2016/file/d8330f857a17c53d217014ee776bfd50-Paper.pdf
[48] P. C. Knag et al., “A 617-TOPS/W all-digital binary neural network
accelerator in 10-nm FinFET CMOS,” IEEE J. Solid-State Circuits,
vol. 56, no. 4, pp. 1082–1092, Apr. 2021.
[49] P. Judd, J. Albericio, T. Hetherington, T. M. Aamodt, and A. Moshovos,
“Stripes: Bit-serial deep neural network computing,” in Proc. 49th Annu.
IEEE/ACM Int. Symp. Microarchit., Sep. 2016, pp. 1–12.
[50] H. Kim, T. Yoo, T. T. Kim, and B. Kim, “Colonnade: A reconfig-
urable SRAM-based digital bit-serial compute-in-memory macro for
processing neural networks,” IEEE J. Solid-State Circuits, vol. 56, no. 7,
pp. 2221–2233, Jul. 2021.
[51] K. Wang, Z. Liu, Y. Lin, J. Lin, and S. Han, “HAQ: Hardware-aware
automated quantization with mixed precision,” in Proc. IEEE/CVF Conf.
Comput. Vis. Pattern Recognit. (CVPR), Jun. 2019, pp. 8604–8612.
[52] T. Schneider, A. Moradi, and T. Güneysu, “Arithmetic addition over
Boolean masking,” in Applied Cryptography and Network Security,
T. Malkin, V. Kolesnikov, A. B. Lewko, and M. Polychronakis, Eds.,
Cham, Switzerland: Springer, 2015, pp. 559–578.
Authorized licensed use limited to: University of Electronic Science and Tech of China. Downloaded on August 13,2026 at 04:10:36 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

===== PAGE 12 =====
ASHOK et al.: DIGITAL IMC FOR MACHINE LEARNING APPLICATIONS WITH INPUT AND MODEL SECURITY
3401
[53] J. Daemen, “Changing of the guards: A simple and efficient method
for achieving uniformity in threshold sharing,” in Proc. Int. Conf.
Cryptogr. Hardw. Embed. Syst., W. Fischer and N. Homma, Eds., Cham,
Switzerland: Springer, 2017, pp. 137–153.
[54] T. Jeong, A. P. Chandrakasan, and H.-S. Lee, “S2ADC: A 12-bit,
1.25-MS/s secure SAR ADC with power side-channel attack resis-
tance,” IEEE J. Solid-State Circuits, vol. 56, no. 3, pp. 844–854,
Mar. 2021.
[55] M. Ashok, E. V. Levine, and A. P. Chandrakasan, “Randomized switch-
ing SAR (RS-SAR) ADC for power and EM side-channel security,”
IEEE Solid-State Circuits Lett., vol. 5, pp. 247–250, 2022.
[56] R. Chen, H. Wang, A. Chandrakasan, and H.-S. Lee, “RaM-SAR: A low
energy and area overhead, 11.3fJ/conv.-step 12b 25MS/s secure random-
mapping SAR ADC with power and EM side-channel attack resilience,”
in Proc. IEEE Symp. VLSI Technol. Circuits, Nov. 2022, pp. 94–95.
[57] M. Henson and S. Taylor, “Memory encryption: A survey of existing
techniques,” ACM Comput. Surveys, vol. 46, no. 4, pp. 1–26, Mar. 2014,
doi: 10.1145/2566673.
[58] C. Dobraunig, M. Eichlseder, F. Mendel, and M. Schläffer. (2019).
ASCON V1.2. Submission to Round 1 NIST Lightweight Cryptography
project. [Online]. Available: https://csrc.nist.gov/CSRC/media/Projects/
Lightweight-Cryptography/documents/round-1/spec-doc/ascon-spec.pdf
[59] NIST. (2022). Lightweight Cryptography. [Online]. Available: https://
csrc.nist.gov/Projects/lightweight-cryptography/finalists
[60] K. Mandal and G. Gong, “Can LWC and PEC be friends: Evaluating
lightweight ciphers in privacy-enhancing cryptography,” in Proc. NIST
Lightweight Cryptogr. Workshop, 2020, pp. 1–17.
[61] G. Bertoni, J. Daemen, M. Peeters, and V. A. Gilles. (2011). The KEC-
CAK Reference. [Online]. Available: https://keccak.team/files/Keccak-
reference-3.0.pdf
[62] H. Gross, E. Wenger, C. Dobraunig, and C. Ehrenhöfer, “ASCON
hardware implementations and side-channel evaluation,” Microproces-
sors Microsyst., vol. 52, pp. 470–479, Jul. 2017. [Online]. Available:
https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0141933116302721
[63] N. Robson et al., “Electrically programmable fuse (eFUSE): From
memory redundancy to autonomic chips,” in Proc. IEEE Custom Integr.
Circuits Conf., Oct. 2007, pp. 799–804.
[64] B. Gassend, D. Clarke, M. van Dijk, and S. Devadas, “Silicon
physical random functions,” in Proc. 9th ACM Conf. Comput. Com-
mun. Secur., New York, NY, USA, Nov. 2002, pp. 148–160, doi:
10.1145/586110.586132.
[65] S. Katzenbeisser, Ü. Koçabas, V. Roži´c, A. Sadeghi, I. Verbauwhede, and
C. Wachsmann, “PUFs: Myth, fact or busted? A security evaluation of
physically unclonable functions (PUFs) cast in silicon,” in Proc. Cryp-
tograph. Hardw. Embedded Syst.-CHES, E. Prouff and P. Schaumont,
Eds., Berlin, Germany: Springer, Jan. 2012, pp. 283–301.
[66] D. E. Holcomb, W. P. Burleson, and K. Fu, “Power-up SRAM state as
an identifying fingerprint and source of true random numbers,” IEEE
Trans. Comput., vol. 58, no. 9, pp. 1198–1210, Sep. 2009.
[67] K. Liu, Y. Min, X. Yang, H. Sun, and H. Shinohara, “A 373-F2 0.21%-
Native-BER EE SRAM physically unclonable function with 2-D power-
gated bit cells and VSS bias-based dark-bit detection,” IEEE J. Solid-State
Circuits, vol. 55, no. 6, pp. 1719–1732, Jun. 2020.
[68] S. Jeloka, K. Yang, M. Orshansky, D. Sylvester, and D. Blaauw,
“A sequence dependent challenge-response PUF using 28nm SRAM 6T
bit cell,” in Proc. Symp. VLSI Circuits, Jun. 2017, pp. C270–C271.
[69] S. Chellappa, A. Dey, and L. T. Clark, “Improved circuits for microchip
identification using SRAM mismatch,” in Proc. IEEE Custom Integr.
Circuits Conf. (CICC), Sep. 2011, pp. 1–4.
[70] S. Taneja, V. K. Rajanna, and M. Alioto, “36.1 unified in-memory
dynamic TRNG and multi-bit static PUF entropy generation for ubiqui-
tous hardware security,” in IEEE Int. Solid-State Circuits Conf. (ISSCC)
Dig. Tech. Papers, vol. 64, Feb. 2021, pp. 498–500.
[71] V. Rožic, W. Dehaene, and I. Verbauwhede, “Design solutions for
securing SRAM cell against power analysis,” in Proc. IEEE Int. Symp.
Hardware-Oriented Secur. Trust, Jun. 2012, pp. 122–127.
[72] S. Satpathy et al., “A 4-fJ/b delay-hardened physically unclonable
function circuit with selective bit destabilization in 14-nm trigate
CMOS,” IEEE J. Solid-State Circuits, vol. 52, no. 4, pp. 940–949,
Apr. 2017.
[73] S. K. Mathew et al., “A 0.19pJ/b PVT-variation-tolerant hybrid physi-
cally unclonable function circuit for 100% stable secure key generation
in 22 nm CMOS,” in IEEE Int. Solid-State Circuits Conf. (ISSCC) Dig.
Tech. Papers, Feb. 2014, pp. 278–279.
[74] S. Stanzione, D. Puntin, and G. Iannaccone, “CMOS silicon physi-
cal unclonable functions based on intrinsic process variability,” IEEE
J. Solid-State Circuits, vol. 46, no. 6, pp. 1456–1463, Jun. 2011.
[75] K. Yang, Q. Dong, D. Blaauw, and D. Sylvester, “A physically unclon-
able function with BER <10-8 for robust chip authentication using
oscillator collapse in 40 nm CMOS,” in IEEE Int. Solid-State Circuits
Conf. (ISSCC) Dig. Tech. Papers, Feb. 2015, pp. 1–3.
[76] R. Maes, V. van der Leest, E. van der Sluis, and F. M. J. Willems,
“Secure key generation from biased PUFs,” in Proc. Cryptograph.
Hardw. Embedded Syst.-CHES. Berlin, Germany: Springer, Jan. 2015,
pp. 517–534, doi: 10.1007/978-3-662-48324-4_26.
[77] S. Crocker and J. I. Schiller, Randomness Requirements for Security,
document RFC 4086, Jun. 2005. [Online]. Available: https://www.rfc-
editor.org/info/rfc4086
[78] R. Maes and V. van der Leest, “Countering the effects of silicon aging
on SRAM PUFs,” in Proc. IEEE Int. Symp. Hardware-Oriented Secur.
Trust (HOST), May 2014, pp. 148–153.
[79] NewAE. (2020). Chipwhisperer. [Online]. Available: https://www.
newae.com/chipwhisperer
[80] E. Brier, C. Clavier, and F. Olivier, “Correlation power analysis with a
leakage model,” in Proc. Int. Workshop Cryptograph. Hardw. Embedded
Syst., in Lecture Notes in Computer Science, vol. 3156, Cambridge, MA,
USA. Cham, Switzerland: Springer, Aug. 2004, pp. 16–29. [Online].
Available: https://iacr.org/archive/ches2004/31560016/31560016.pdf
[81] L. Weissbart and S. Picek, “Lightweight but not easy: Side-channel
analysis of the Ascon authenticated cipher on a 32-bit microcontroller,”
in Proc. Cryptol. ePrint Arch., 2023, pp. 1–5. [Online]. Available:
https://eprint.iacr.org/2023/1598
[82] (2015). Test Vector Leakage Assessment (TVLA) Derived Test Require-
ments (DTR) With AES 1 Document. [Online]. Available: https://api.
semanticscholar.org/CorpusID:44241387
[83] Y. LeCun, Y. Bengio, and G. Hinton, “Deep learning,” Nature, vol. 521,
no. 7553, pp. 436–444, 2015.
[84] J. Von Neumann et al., “Various techniques used in connection with ran-
dom digits,” John Von Neumann, Collected Works, vol. 5, pp. 768–770,
Aug. 1963.
[85] L. E. Bassham et al., “SP 800-22 rev. 1a. A statistical test suite
for random and pseudorandom number generators for cryptographic
applications,” Nat. Inst. Standards, Gaithersburg, MD, USA, Tech.
Rep. 800-22 Rev 1a, 2010.
[86] R. C. Bose and D. K. Ray-Chaudhuri, “On a class of error correcting
binary group codes,” Inf. Control, vol. 3, no. 1, pp. 68–79, 1960.
[Online].
Available:
https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/
pii/S0019995860902874
[87] R. Hwang, T. Kim, Y. Kwon, and M. Rhu, “Centaur: A chiplet-based,
hybrid sparse-dense accelerator for personalized recommendations,”
in Proc. ACM/IEEE 47th Annu. Int. Symp. Comput. Archit. (ISCA),
May 2020, pp. 968–981.
[88] Z. Tan, H. Cai, R. Dong, and K. Ma, “NN-baton: DNN workload orches-
tration and chiplet granularity exploration for multichip accelerators,”
in Proc. ACM/IEEE Int. Symp. Comput. Archit. (ISCA), Nov. 2021,
pp. 1013–1026.
Maitreyi Ashok (Student Member, IEEE) received
the B.S. degree in electrical engineering from Cal-
ifornia Institute of Technology (Caltech), Pasadena,
CA, USA, in 2019, and the S.M. degree in
electrical engineering and computer science from
Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT), Cam-
bridge, MA, USA, in 2021. She is currently pursuing
the Ph.D. degree with MIT, supervised by Professor
Anantha Chandrakasan.
She has previously interned at Intel Labs, Hills-
boro, OR, USA, in 2021; and Microsoft, Redmond,
WA, USA, in 2018 and 2019. Her research focuses on hardware security in
digital and mixed-signal integrated circuits against physical attacks including
passive side channels and hardware trojan insertion.
Ms. Maitreyi received the National Science Foundation Graduate Research
Fellowship in 2019, the Analog Devices Fellowship in 2019, and the Math-
Works Engineering Fellowship in 2021.
Authorized licensed use limited to: University of Electronic Science and Tech of China. Downloaded on August 13,2026 at 04:10:36 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

===== PAGE 13 =====
3402
IEEE JOURNAL OF SOLID-STATE CIRCUITS, VOL. 60, NO. 9, SEPTEMBER 2025
Saurav Maji (Member, IEEE) received the B.Tech.
degree in electronics and electrical communication
engineering from Indian Institute of Technology
(IIT) Kharagpur, Kharagpur, India, in 2017, and the
S.M. and Ph.D. degrees in electrical engineering
and computer science from Massachusetts Institute
of Technology (MIT), Cambridge, MA, USA, in
2019 and 2023, respectively.
Since July 2023, he has been a Research Scien-
tist with Circuits Research Lab, Intel Labs, Intel,
Hillsboro, OR, USA. His research interests include
energy-efficient security solutions for IoT applications, side-channel security,
fault analysis for machine learning and artificial intelligence applications, and
circuits for biomedical applications.
Dr. Maji was a recipient of the President of India Gold Medal from IIT
Kharagpur in 2017, the Analog Devices Fellowship from MIT in 2017,
the MIT EECS MathWorks Fellowship from MIT in 2022, and the Student
Research Preview (SRP) Poster Award at the IEEE International Solid-State
Circuits Conference (ISSCC) 2023. He received the Second Place Winner
Award in the Design Contest at the 2020 ACM/IEEE International Symposium
on Low Power Electronics and Design (ISLPED).
Xin Zhang (Senior Member, IEEE) received the
B.S. degree in electronics engineering from Xi’an
Jiaotong University, Xi’an, China, in 2003, and
the Ph.D. degree in microelectronics from Peking
University, Beijing, China, in 2008.
From 2008 to 2012, he was a Project Researcher
and a Project Research Associate at the Institute of
Industrial Science, The University of Tokyo, Tokyo,
Japan. In 2012, he was a Visiting Scholar at the
University of California at Berkeley, Berkeley, CA,
USA. In 2013, he was a Scientist at the Institute
of Microelectronics (IME), Agency for Science, Technology and Research
(A*STAR), Singapore. Since 2014, he has been with the IBM T. J. Watson
Research Center, Yorktown Heights, NY, USA, where he is currently a
Research Staff Member and the Manager. Since 2021, he has been an
Adjunct Professor with the Department of Electrical Engineering, Columbia
University, New York City, NY, USA. Since 2022, he has been associated
with the MIT-IBM Watson AI Laboratory, Cambridge, MA, USA. He has
authored or co-authored over 60 technical articles and has over 40 filed
or issued patents. His research interests include analog circuits, power
management circuits, dc–dc converters, power devices, magnetics, machine
learning hardware/accelerators, computer system architecture, server system
packaging/power delivery/cooling, and AI-/ML-assisted EDA.
Dr. Zhang has served as a Technical Program Committee Member for the
Applied Power Electronics Conference (APEC), the IEEE VLSI Symposium
on Technology and Circuits, the IEEE Custom Integrated Circuits Conference
(CICC), the IEEE International Solid-State Circuits Conference (ISSCC),
and the Design Automation Conference (DAC). He has been an Organizing
Committee Member of the IBM IEEE CAS/EDS—AI Compute Symposium
since 2018. He is also serving as a member of the Analog-Mixed Signal
Circuits, Systems, and Devices (AMS-CSD) Technical Advisory Board at the
Semiconductor Research Corporation (SRC) representing IBM. He served as
a Guest Editor for IEEE JOURNAL ON EMERGING AND SELECTED TOPICS
IN CIRCUITS AND SYSTEMS and IEEE SOLID-STATE CIRCUITS LETTERS.
He is an Associate Editor of IEEE SSC-L.
John Cohn (Life Fellow, IEEE) received the BSEE
degree from Massachusetts Institute of Technology
(MIT), Cambridge, MA, USA, in 1981, and the
Ph.D. degree in computer engineering from Carnegie
Mellon University, Pittsburgh, PA, USA, in 1991,
where he was named a Distinguished Alumni in
2014.
He is an IBM Fellow Emeritus with the IBM
Research Division, Cambridge. He has authored
more than 45 technical papers, contributed to four
books, and has more than 120 worldwide patents.
Dr. Cohn was elected a fellow of the IEEE for contributions to high-speed
integrated circuit design in 2005. In 2022, he was elected to the US National
Academy of Engineering. He is active in education issues at the local, state,
and national levels. In 2019, he was awarded the IEEE CAS John Choma
Education Award for his efforts in STEM promotion. In 2021, he was awarded
the IEEE EAB Meritorious Achievement Award in Outreach and Informal
Education.
Anantha P. Chandrakasan (Fellow, IEEE) received
the B.S., M.S., and Ph.D. degrees in electrical
engineering and computer sciences from the Univer-
sity of California at Berkeley, Berkeley, CA, USA,
in 1989, 1990, and 1994, respectively.
Since September 1994, he has been with Mas-
sachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT), Cam-
bridge, MA, USA, where he is currently the
Vannevar Bush Professor of Electrical Engineering
and Computer Science. He was the Director of
the Microsystems Technology Laboratories, MIT,
from 2006 to 2011. From July 2011 to June 2017, he was the Head of
the Department of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, MIT. Since
July 2017, he has been the Dean of the School of Engineering, MIT. Since
January 2024, he has also held the position of MIT Chief Innovation and
Strategy Officer. He is a co-author of Low Power Digital CMOS Design
(Kluwer Academic Publishers, 1995), Digital Integrated Circuits (Pearson
Prentice-Hall, 2003, Second Edition), and Sub-threshold Design for Ultra-Low
Power Systems (Springer 2006). His research interests include ultra-low-power
circuit and system design, energy harvesting, energy-efficient RF circuits, and
hardware security.
Dr. Chandrakasan was elected as a fellow of the Association for Computing
Machinery (ACM) in 2020. He was a co-recipient of several awards, including
the 2007 ISSCC Beatrice Winner Award for Editorial Excellence and the
ISSCC Jack Kilby Award for Outstanding Student Paper in 2007, 2008,
and 2009. He received the 2009 Semiconductor Industry Association (SIA)
University Researcher Award and the 2013 IEEE Donald O. Pederson Award
in Solid-State Circuits, an Honorary Doctorate from KU Leuven in 2016, the
UC Berkeley EE Distinguished Alumni Award in 2017, and the 2019 IEEE
Solid-State Circuits Society Distinguished Service Award. In 2015, he was
elected to the National Academy of Engineering. In 2019, he was elected to the
American Academy of Arts and Sciences. He was a recipient of the 2022 IEEE
Mildred Dresselhaus Medal. He has served in various roles for the IEEE
ISSCC including the Program Chair, the Signal Processing Sub-Committee
Chair, and the Technology Directions Sub-committee Chair. He served as the
Conference Chair for ISSCC from 2010 to 2018. He served as the Senior
Technical Advisor to the Conference from ISSCC 2019 to ISSCC 2023.
Authorized licensed use limited to: University of Electronic Science and Tech of China. Downloaded on August 13,2026 at 04:10:36 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
